the LinkedIn DM strategy I'm about to
share in this video has been tested with
hundreds of my clients from Video
Production Studios all the way through
to illustrators and animators and the
results have been pretty impressive
let's take David for example who was
able to secure a meeting with a senior
executive at Paramount and win a five
figure deal or Kai who was able to land
Bentley as a client in this video you're
going to see the exact five-step
LinkedIn DM process that you can use to
win your dream clients I'll even be
showing you examples of bad LinkedIn DMS
I've received so you know exactly what
type of messages to avoid sending so
let's get into it just zooming out for a
second this is kind of how I like to
think about LinkedIn there's there's
sort of three elements for me the first
one is your your connections so sort of
how you're actually networking so who
are you connecting with who is in your
network and doing this consistently is
really really important the second piece
of this is starting conversations with
people actually showing an interest in
what they do and I'm going to get down
into what you say and how you structure
that in a minute but actually having
conversations with people is so
underrated and interestingly we're going
to talk about DMS today but but
conversations don't just have to be in
DMS they can also be in comments right
so you can start conversations I do this
all the time I post out a bit of content
and someone replies to me and I have a
conversation with them I ask them a
question I don't just say thanks for the
comment right and it really helps to
understand people a little bit better it
helps to really build that Rapport and
then the final piece is content now I
said that you don't have to spend hours
creating content um at the beginning of
this video and that is true I was able
to use this strategy in my own business
and my clients are able to use this
strategy actually without creating any
content it just makes it a little bit
easier if you have content because
there's something for people to consume
people can kind of see what you're about
understand what you're about what your
business is about and get some context
for that conversation so these are the
three C's of LinkedIn this is how I like
to think about it and every day I kind
of think about this as a clockwise
process right so if I'm constantly doing
this if I'm connecting with new people
if I'm starting conversations and I'm
creating content then I know that
Landing projects and winning dream
clients is inevitable over time okay so
they're the kind of three C's so let's
let's look at the five elements that
make up a good message
and a clear message and something that's
actually going to get a conversation
started and as I said you can take this
off of LinkedIn but this is specifically
about LinkedIn and this is kind of where
our clients have got the best results so
there's five key elements and I'll just
walk you through each one and then I'll
I'll give you a few examples so the
first one is a reason right why are you
actually reaching out what is this about
and there was a study a while ago that
showed people who have a reason for
something when they're making a request
are twice as likely to have that request
accepted versus somebody who doesn't
have a reason and I think if I remember
off the top of my head the study used
several examples but one of them was
cutting into a line and so someone
requested to cut into the line and they
found the people that said hey can I cut
in because and gave a reason were twice
as like
to be allowed to cut into that line than
people that didn't and what they
actually found was they used a variety
of different reasons and it didn't seem
to make a difference about the reason
that people actually gave so whether
you're connecting with someone on
LinkedIn and you're using a personalized
message or you're actually just reaching
out to them directly the reason is
really important hey why are you
actually reaching out to me today the
second thing is a compliment right
everybody loves
to be acknowledged everybody loves being
complimented this has always fascinated
with me I get to hang out with some
pretty impressive people like Chris doe
and Daniel Priestley other entrepreneurs
who have created some amazing things and
they're just human they like compliments
when I genuinely like something about
them and tell them they appreciate it
right so people never really get bored
of compliments as long as they
are genuine right super important
genuine compliment don't just say
something for the sake of it people will
see through that the third thing is what
we call an anchor an anchor is really
just something that you have in common
with someone and you've probably
experienced this yourself so how many of
you have ever been on holiday and you
meet someone from the same town or city
as you or you meet someone who supports
the same sports team that you do and
automatically you feel this sense of
connection with them you feel this
almost uh friendship when you don't
really know this person but just because
you have that thing in common you feel
connected to them that's what an anchor
is it's something that anchors you
together second to last thing is value
this is really really important like
most people want to know what is in this
for me and I don't just mean the service
that you offer I mean what is in this
interaction
for me and so it's really important that
we deliver value and I'm going to talk
you through these in a little bit more
detail final thing is an ask what do you
actually want me to do and people miss
this a lot when I get messages on
LinkedIn or when people reach out to me
they tell me all this great stuff or
they tell me how important and amazing
that they are usually and what they can
do for me but they don't actually ask
anything specific so I'm sat there
thinking this is all great but what do
you want me to do now do you want me to
book a call do you want me to reply to
this message like what's the thing that
you actually want me to do and the
clearer and easier we can make the ask
the easier this is going to be so just
to confirm this is the exact framework
that we teach our clients the exact
framework that has allowed our clients
to land five and six figure projects
directly through cold Outreach on
LinkedIn this is the exact framework
that I use to build relationships with
people who can create opportunities
these are the principles and the
framework that goes into every
interaction okay so I've got this anchor
cheat sheet here which I'm going to talk
to you about in a minute but the one
thing I will say is just coming back to
the second principle I mentioned at the
beginning around message like a
millennial you don't have to cover all
of these five things in one message you
don't have to sort of cram these in into
one message you can sort of make this a
backwards and forwards thing and drop
each one of these in so the first part
of the message could be hey I'm reaching
out because I love x y and Zed we also
do this and then a question right and
then you can demonstrate some of this
value and and I find this is actually
easier to do you can demonstrate some of
this value during the conversation
because it's much much easier to
demonstrate value to someone when you
understand what is valuable to them and
this is a big piece of the jigsaw that I
won't get too deep into but that a lot
of people miss when they are reaching
out they assume so many things and I'm
going to show you some examples of this
in a minute they assume that you're
struggling with this or they assume that
you need this service whereas really
it's much more valuable to listen and to
understand what is going on for that
person before you then offer some kind
of value so the reason why are we
reaching out compliment what do you
generally like about them and then the
anchor what do we have in common so I
just want to share something with you
called The Anchor cheat sheet and the
anchor cheat sheet is just a way on
LinkedIn that I have found to create
anchors fairly easily without spending
too much time or thinking too much about
this and one of the reasons I love
LinkedIn is because it makes this quite
easy so these are some very kind of
simple and basic ways that you can
create anchors with people who you maybe
don't know in your network so the first
one is sort of like a school or a
university now a lot of people like
myself went to a university that has
tens of thousands of uh students every
year and so it's pretty easy to connect
with someone there in that industry so
one of the things that do on LinkedIn is
I will go to LinkedIn and I will go to
that school so for me it was University
of Leeds I go to university of Leeds and
I will look at all the alumni and people
that say that they went to the
University of leads and Linkedin is
quite good at this as well it will
sometimes suggest hey this person also
went to the University of leads and I
can filter by industry or I can look at
people within the creative space that
also went to the University of Leeds and
I can just use that as a really simple
anchor I can say hey I also see that you
went to the University of leads and you
studied X I love what you're up to these
days and then I can ask them a question
I'll get into questions in a minute but
a school or a university or a college or
whatever it is is quite an easy one the
second one is an event right and so
there's lots of events that happen on
LinkedIn at the moment and it could just
be that you guys went to the same event
or you went to the same networking event
this is a really underrated strategy
okay just because you didn't meet
somebody at a networking event doesn't
mean you can't connect with them after
the event so often I actually won some
of my best clients when I was running my
creative Studio I won some of my best
clients from connecting with people at
networking events that I didn't actually
meet at the networking event and the way
that I did that was I got the list of
delegates the list of attendees and I
went through and I looked at each one of
those and saw who seemed interesting and
connected with them and I just used the
anchor of I was was also at the event
last week and I loved x y and Zed what
was your favorite thing about that event
and so again we are just trying to start
conversations remember we're not trying
to win clients straight away in the
first message Mutual connection who do
you also know that one's fairly
self-explanatory what about an
influencer or a thought leader that they
also follow and I see this quite a lot
so hey I noticed that you also follow
Bry Brown I also noticed that you follow
Chris do what do you love most about
their content or was there something
specific that you like about Chris or
the content that he puts out again it's
a conversation starter but it's an
anchor content is a really easy one if
the person that you want to connect with
creates content and I know that's not
everybody but if they do then this is a
really really easy one to get your teeth
into because you can just anchor
something around that content that maybe
you also know about or that you're
interested in let's use the example of
Wellness entrepreneurs which one of my
clients is currently targeting if they
post about let's say breath work or
something along those lines you could
say hey I noticed that you're currently
talking about breath work I've tried
this myself and found it really powerful
I'm curious what type of breath work
have you found to be most powerful for
you right so we're we're kind of asking
and we're looking at that question now I
know you're probably thinking but Matt
where's the value well as I said
initially we want to try and start that
conversation and then once we get a bit
of backwards and forwards we can then
offer some kind of value and what I will
say is this works best when the value
that you offer is free value upfront and
I'm not saying work for free that's a
whole different
conversation that's not what I'm saying
what I'm saying is if you can offer
something and it's not just hey by the
way we build websites would you like to
have a conversation because then it just
kind of feels a little bit transactional
and like oh you're just starting a
conversation with me because you wanted
to sell me a website if you can actually
offer them something of value Upfront
for free where they don't have to pay
anything like an article that you've
written something you found interesting
an introduction to your network there's
a million and one ways to do this I'm
going to talk a little bit more about it
in a minute but if you can actually do
that then you will get a much much
better response and people will trust
you and you will be doing the first
principle that I said which is giving
before you ask so that's around content
and then obviously a project so
something that they've worked on or a
particular project that they have in
their portfolio or on their website or
whatever is another one one of the
biggest things around messaging is the
importance of making it easy and I talk
a little bit about the idea of the brain
drain and The Brain Drain is really
understanding that every
interaction you have with someone takes
energy right and it's actually taking
someone's brain power to respond to you
so when you reach out to somebody think
about how much energy are you actually
taking from them what are you asking
them to do so around the questions use a
question that requires less energy and I
often call these this or that questions
or closed questions so let's just go
really really basic and kind of take
this outside the context of business for
a second you could ask somebody hey what
do you prefer cats or dogs that's a
really simple question to answer right
instead of hey I'm curious like what's
your favorite breed of cat and why it's
like wow that's a really difficult
question for me to answer maybe if I
love cats it's interesting and easy but
if if I don't then it's difficult and so
you start asking these kind of complex
questions right off the bat about their
business and all of this kind of stuff
that I see and it just requires too much
brain power so try and keep those
questions easy try and keep those things
as simple as possible for for people to
answer let's look at some sort of bad
examples of messaging now I've kind of
blanked out people's names these are
just ones these are just messages that I
personally got in the last few weeks and
I also asked some of my clients to
submit them as well I'm not going to go
into too much detail about these cuz I
think it's pretty obvious why these are
not good messages I've blanked these
names out I'm not doing this to sort of
cool anyone out but I think it's really
really important to acknowledge some of
these so I think what you can notice
about most of these messages is it's
very much about them right so let me
introduce myself I'm a digital marketing
consultant I help these people blah blah
blah great I've done audits for your
social media profiles and businesses and
so this person is kind of is getting
there with the value but the problem
with this and this is what I mentioned
before
is people do things with me and I feel a
little bit guilty because someone to go
and do an audit of my website and my
social media and all of this stuff and
hey we can help you get more leads and
like we can see all these tweaks you can
make but for me that's not a priority
right now that's not something that
we're struggling with it's not a problem
that we have in our business and yeah
I'm sure my socials could be improved
and I'm sure our website could be better
but we get hundreds of leads a month and
we have lots of clients and so that's
not a core problem in my business right
now and so we're assuming a lot and uh
there's a lot of assumption in here as
well there's another one here that
someone sent me the other day hey I
noticed your website built on WordPress
which is honestly quite old style or old
school and it's like well first of all
actually go back and check cuz our
website isn't built in WordPress is
built in web flow secondly you're kind
of basically attacking me a little bit
and saying hey like your website's
really old it's outdated have you
considered this by the way we build
websites and this is what we can do for
you right the other mistake here that
these people are making is often they're
asking several questions in one message
which again is using a lot of brain
power try to keep your questions concise
try and keep them easy to answer so for
example this person could have said I
noticed that your website is built on
WordPress even though they've got that
wrong so let imagine they just said it
was built on webflow I really like x y
and Zed about it I'm curious are you
currently satisfied with your
click-through rate or are you how do you
currently measure your click-through
rate would have been a much better
approach and a much better conversation
sort of lead you know leave this stuff
out because the thing about LinkedIn is
I can click on your profile and I can
see what you do I can see what your
experience is I don't actually need to
know this in a message and most people
when they get a message from someone we
go and check out that profile and they
will see like okay I understand what
this person does so I understand the
context of this conversation again
another one down here is just purely a
simple pitch I don't want to take too
much of your time but I'm reaching out
cuz I can provide you with high quality
appointments and qualified leads okay
great you know we've gone straight in
for the pitch here you haven't really
ask anything about me this is just
clearly a kind of automated message so
the great thing about this framework
with the reason the compliment and the
anchor is it makes it feel very
personalized and I promise you when you
get into the rhythm of doing this and
you practice it and you do it
consistently and you know what to look
out for the school you went to the
people you have in common all of those
kind of cheat sheets that I just gave
you that can actually become a really
quick process you could do that for four
four or five people every single day in
less than 30 minutes and our clients do
so imagine that imagine what that would
be like compounded over a month or two
months or 3 months if you genuinely
reached out and connected to five people
or connected with five people every
single day for the next 30 days where
would your level of opportunity be
compared to where it is now how would it
feel to you to have all of those
conversations going so I really really
encourage you to to lean into this and
get to the point where you can do this
consistently because once you can do it
consistently you can pass it to somebody
else and they can do it on your behalf
so we've talked about the brain drain
here are some better examples look I've
just typed these out these are some
things I kind of thought off the top of
my head because I couldn't really give
you specific examples I'm using without
the context of the situation and I
didn't have permission from that person
to share that interaction so these are
some things that I've used in the past
these are some messages that I've sent
in the past really really simple so this
is kind of more like a a connection
message hey John I just came across your
work with Adidas so this is the reason
why I'm reaching out and I see we have a
mutual love for retro Footwear right so
there's not like a huge compliment in
here but there is an anchor did you
manag to score any free shoes so I'm
just kind of being friendly I'm just
being curious I'm not trying to come in
with any cold pitch this could be like a
little connection message the hard thing
about LinkedIn and personalizing invites
is the limit limit to the number of
characters in that message and so it
does become quite difficult but if you
get skilled at this you can actually
create and touch all of these five
things in one short sentence so again
I'm not suggesting these are perfect but
these are examples of a slightly less
salesy approach this one is a bit more
so I double checked and this doesn't
actually fit in the personalized
invitation so this would have to be in
one of the first messages um but it's
you know I just came across your show
real uh I was really impressed with your
work especially the project you did with
Bobcat so I'm being specific about my
compliment it shows that I've actually
looked at their website I've actually
looked at the projects that they've
worked on I'm not just sending some
generic thing that looks like it's been
sent to everybody and then I've just
said hey it reminded me of my first role
as a runner so if you don't know what
that is in film a runner is the person
who kind of goes around and does all the
things for the director and make sure
that everyone's got what they need it's
quite a junior role so somebody in the
film business and somebody who makes
film would understand what that is and
they would kind of get that oh this this
guy's been in the film industry he knows
the the term he knows what it's like
working in there and then I've just
asked him a really simple this or that
question right do you typically work
with corporates or smes and most of the
time I get a pretty positive response
from this kind of thing because most
people aren't getting messages that show
somebody has taken the time and the
effort and the energy to look at their
profile to actually see who they are to
give them a genuine compliment and to
create some kind of anchor something you
have in common and just ask them a
really easy Next Step question now
obviously you're not guaranteed to get a
response from every single person and
don't expect that but this will
significantly increase your chances and
if you do this consistently you will
land projects I promise you and I have
been doing this for the last five or six
years and as I said this has been tested
with with hundreds of our clients and it
works so the big message here is really
about starting conversations we've got a
saying in our coaching program that
Clarity comes from conversations and
what we really mean by that is that you
can't figure out everything in your head
you have to have conversations with
ideal clients if you really want to
understand what's valuable to them if
you really want to understand how to
build relationships and connect with
them you have to be consistently
starting those conversations if you want
to get clarity so they are the five key
elements while you reaching out what do
you love about them specifically what's
the anchor what do you have in common
what kind of value can you bring for
them upfront not asking for money value
is not saying hey by the way we build
websites do you need a website that's
not value value is saying hey I thought
you might find this article interesting
hey can I introduce you to this person
in my network hey by the way we have
this free tool the scorecard whatever it
is would you like me to send it to you
it's being genuinely interested as a
person showing that you care and
delivering some of that value up front
and if you consistently do that I
promise you people will see you as
somebody worth connecting with and you
will be able to land your dream clients
so now you know each of the five steps
to a powerful LinkedIn DM strategy you
almost have the complete framework to
start winning those dream clients but
there are three key principles that most
people miss and if you fail to stick to
these principles it will make this
strategy way less effective so let's
quickly run through what these three
principles are that you must follow if
you want your LinkedIn DMS to land those
dream clients consistently so the first
principle is that we must view this
through the frame of giving not just
getting and this is important for a few
reasons I'm going to show you some
examples of where this doesn't work but
what I want you to understand is that
from a psychological perspective Ive
there is some kind of reciprocity which
is created when somebody gives you
something so you feel like you want to
give them something back and that's
often why when you're following people
with all of this great content you feel
like you're getting something and you
want to give something in return and
that could be as simple as an email
address could be as simple as some
contact details or it could be money
time uh energy whatever it is that's
just kind of how most people's brains
work the other thing this does is it
takes away that element of kind of
salesy spam because if you know you're
giving something to someone rather than
getting something it allows you to be
more active in your approach to outreach
you don't mind messaging people you
don't mind reaching out because you know
you've got something valuable to offer
so principle number one is you've got to
come into this this with the mindset of
giving not just getting the second
principle is we want to message like a
millennial so what does that mean well
I've got some younger cousins and
whenever I speak to them it's always a
very sort of backwards and forwards
conversation I'll ask a question they'll
respond they'll ask the question sort of
like that it's very conversational
whereas if I get a message from an older
member of my family often it's this kind
of big paragraph where there's life
updates and what they've been up to and
they'll ask several questions in it to
be honest it takes quite a lot of brain
power to read so when we're thinking
about messaging people on LinkedIn and
kind of most social media platforms we
really want to think about creating this
sort of conversational tone this
experience which feels conversational it
feels sort of backwards and forwards
it's not just huge lengthy paragraphs
that are difficult to read and uh
probably make people want to put their
phone away and that's the thing right
cuz most of these things especially on
LinkedIn a lot of people are reading
these messages on their phone and so
they're already sort of in that mode of
sort of text messaging WhatsApp that's
where their Brains Brains at and so it's
kind of really important to play into
where they already are the third key
principle here is Don't Fear the
followup and this one honestly is
massive and the reason I say it's
massive is because throughout the years
of my experience of reaching out to
people myself building relationships and
creating winwin scenarios with people I
have found that often the opportunity is
created in the third or the fourth
followup and so uh We've recently
recorded a podcast episode with Kai who
I mentioned in the intro that was able
to land Bentley as a client and I'd
highly recommend you go and listen to
that search for the creative courage
podcast and you can hear Kai's story but
one of the things that he says in there
is how many emails he actually had to
send uh Bentley before they responded
now a lot of people have quite a lot of
resistance around this because again it
comes back to this idea of bothering
people being salesy being spammy but
think about this for your yourself how
many unread messages do you have in your
inbox or in your WhatsApp or in other
areas of communication right now where
you genuinely are interested in that
thing or you genuinely like that person
but you just haven't had time to respond
it could even be a friend or a family
member you haven't responded to yet that
messaged you a few days ago just because
somebody hasn't responded to you does
not mean they don't want to respond to
you or they're not interested the other
thing we got to take into consideration
is how often people use LinkedIn how
active they are what else they've got
going on right now they might be on
holiday there's a million and one things
that could be going on and having done
this for five or six years now
personally and having built my business
at the beginning using predominantly
Outreach I know how many relationships I
built how many deals I created in the
third or the fourth follow up so if I
hadn't sent that message if I hadn't
followed up with that person then I
never would have got to work with them
and often times when I follow up people
will apologize and say hey I'm really
sorry I didn't see this or it landed in
my spam or I've been away on holiday or
whatever they've been doing right and so
often people do want to have the
conversation they do want to respond to
you but they just haven't for whatever
reason so the way I like to operate and
the way I like to think about Outreach
is people are interested to have a
conversation with you unless they tell
you otherwise and for me personally
that's been a great frame to view
Outreach through and it's served me
really well and it's allowed me to
create opportunities that I don't think
I would have been able to create without
it so there are the three key principles
give versus get you've got to approach
this with a mindset of giving not just
taking something from somebody we've got
to keep the messaging here sure we've
got to keep it conversational and don't
be afraid to follow up with people I
hope you found this video valuable if
you did I'd encourage you to connect
with me on LinkedIn come and check out
some of the content that we put out
don't forget to subscribe to the Future
Channel this is one of the best channels
that I know for growing your creative
business my name is Matt essm and this
has been a short master class on
attracting your dream clients using DMS
on LinkedIn