if you are struggling to land clients on
social media right now then this video
might be for you I'm going to break down
a five-part process that I've been using
to help creative business owners land
five and six figured deals all through
social media hey it's Matt essm here
over the last decade I've been coaching
creative Studio owners and helping them
to grow and scale their business now a
big part of that is winning new clients
winning more business right
and most of them rely on Word of Mouth
and referrals which is great because it
means that they're good at what they do
but it's also a little bit unpredictable
and so one of the things that they were
looking for was a system they could use
to take people from total strangers to
becoming clients and that's exactly what
I'm going to break down today so to
start with we need to understand what
stops people from actually buying our
services and what stops people from
trusting us and engaging with us and
giving us their attention and their time
I took this principal from Zig Ziggler
and he has a pretty old but amazing book
called the secrets to closing a sale now
obviously we're talking mainly about
marketing here but really these are the
five things these are the five key
obstacles that need to be overcome
when you are trying to get somebody to
buy what you do so when we're thinking
about social when we're thinking about
getting clients outside of referrals
these are the five key pillars that we
need to keep in our mind and so what I'm
going to do is going to break down each
one and I'm going to give you a strategy
or a principle or an idea of how you can
actually implement this in your business
one thing I will say
quickly is that I get approached by a
lot of creative business owners and when
I ask them what they want they tell me
they just want clients who get what they
do they just want clients who see the
value in what they do and they're happy
to pay for it now there's an assumption
built into that that those clients are
just going to arrive and they're going
to be like wow Matt you're amazing
you're incredible how do we pay you how
do we work with you right and like
they've never seen anything that I've
done before that's really unlikely to
happen even if you've got an incredible
portfolio even if you've won a lot of
War Awards because ultimately those
people who have never heard of you
before don't really care that much about
Awards and portfolio that really just
shows them that you are good at your
particular craft but what they care
about is they care about their business
they care about their challenges they
care about their desires they care about
where they're spending their money if
it's safe if they can trust that person
and so we can have those clients that
just see the value in branding or
animation or design the problem with
them is if they see the value then first
of all they're probably going for the
best of the best like the top 1%
especially if they've got a budget
they've got lots of people that they can
choose from the second is if they really
understand the value of it they're
probably looking at multiple suppliers
and so then as a agency or as a creative
business you get into this kind of this
pitch Fest right where you're up against
all these other people and you're kind
of engaging with that person at the
wrong stage of the decision- making
process and so really good marketing is
about engaging people that you want to
help that you want to work with and
helping them to see their problems in a
different way than they currently see
them to give them some kind of insight
or to educate them in some way about how
they can get from A to B faster more
effectively how they can overcome this
problem that maybe they just thought
they couldn't overcome or maybe they
believed that that was just part of
running a business like really good
marketers do this well and because they
do this well they build the trust of
those people and more importantly they
get seen as a creative partner as a
problem solver rather than just a worker
rather than just a pixel Pusher who's
going to do what that client says and so
that's a big distinction here I just
want to make before I dive into this CU
as I go through you might be thinking oh
I don't really want to do all these
things like this person should already
want branding they should already trust
me they should already trust the process
Etc and that it that it would be like an
incredible world right if everyone was
just bought into what you do they came
across you and they were like Matt's
amazing he's incredible I want to work
with him right now I didn't have to put
out any kind of videos I didn't have to
put on any kind of content I didn't have
to build trust with anyone I didn't have
to do any of that stuff people just
arrived at my door and they were like
hey I want to work with you that would
be amazing but that's not really how the
world works I mean maybe it works for
people at the top 1% but they've spent
decades and decades and decades getting
there so they've got such an incredible
reputation that people just trust them
automatically so for the rest of us this
is what we have to do and there are five
parts and so as I said I'm going to
break down each part I want to start
with this top one now this might seem
really obvious if this person doesn't
need this thing then they're not going
to buy it right but here's the thing
they might not know they need this thing
right now in fact you've probably had
this experience you've
probably come across some kind of
product or service that you just didn't
really know that you needed until you
actually started using it right and you
like oh my God how have I lived my life
for so long without this thing you
didn't know you needed it maybe because
you didn't know it existed or maybe
because you didn't know it was possible
so the first thing is we've got to spend
time helping people to understand why
they need this thing like why do they
need a consistent brand why do they need
a visually impaling brand why do they
need the thing that we can help them
with right it's our job as creative
problem solvers as business owners to
educate people around that and again I'm
going to I'm going to show you some ways
that that we can do that the second
thing is they've got to want it and
again this might seem obvious but going
to use the metaphor of say like a gym
membership or a personal trainer there
might be someone who knows they need to
get in shape and they tell themselves I
really need to eat better I really need
to exercise but do they actually want to
do that do they actually want to go to
the gym do they actually want to cut out
these Foods they need to cut out and
it's only when they get to the point
where they really want to be in that
shape it's not just telling themselves I
really need to like I know I need to be
healthier it's like I actually want to
be healthier I have a desire to be
healthier and that has to be an element
because someone might know they need
something but they might not actually
want it and there's a big difference
between a need and a
desire the third thing is they have to
trust us and today this is becoming more
and more important because we don't live
in the information economy anymore
information is freely available look at
YouTube as an example right but how do
we know who to trust trust how do we
know what information to trust right how
do we know what person to trust to guide
us on the journey that we want to go on
so I believe now more than ever we live
in the trust economy and so there are
some mechanisms that I'm going to walk
you through that are going to allow you
to build trust then we have got uh this
one which is really obvious right they
have to be able to afford it and going
to talk a little bit more about this but
we're not going to ask about budget
because often if people aren't aware
that they need something or they don't
necessarily know why now is the right
time to have that thing they haven't set
aside budget for it and so we want to
qualify people to see whether they have
money but we need to do it in a slightly
different way and then finally there has
to be urgency and this is the one that
most people will really struggle with so
when I'm coaching creative agencies
creative Studios one of the things they
tell me is they have great conversations
with potential clients but they
potential clients say yeah this is great
uh we'll get back to you when we've got
some work or we'll get back to you next
week or next month and then they just
don't hear from people so they really
struggle to create this sense of urgency
okay so let's talk about these five
elements how we build them in into our
communication on social media and by the
way this doesn't have to be you sitting
there creating hours of content this can
be through direct message this can be
just simple things that we feature on
our social media profiles but it is
essential that we do these five things
if we want to get high value clients
from social media so let's talk first
about need why do you need this
particular thing right what is the thing
that I offer going to solve for you and
this is a very typical mistake that I
see a lot of creative business owners
making is when we talk about what we do
we're very very focused on our services
the things that we offer branding web
design animation whatever it is and that
doesn't really clearly communicate to me
why I need the thing that you do it just
tells me what you do and unless I've
already come to the conclusion that I
need graphic design or I need an
animated video then I don't need it
right it's just nice it's good for you
hey it's nice to hear that you're doing
this thing and I know when people are
really struggling because they literally
just post something on LinkedIn or
Instagram or whatever which is hey guys
just a reminder I do this thing if you
need some animation then give me a shout
right and it's just not enough it's just
not something that's going to
communicate the need to that ID CL so if
we are communicating the need what we
need to do is we need to link what we
provide as a service I.E branding
graphic design etc etc to two things we
need to link it to a pain or problem
that it solves or a
desire that our ideal client has so
rather than talking about what we do we
need to talk about our ideal clients
challenges and goals and then
demonstrate how our process or our
service can help them to solve those
challenges or help them to reach those
goals and so in one of my previous
videos or one of the things that I say
quite often is the way to do that is to
swap talking about
services with talking about
symptoms so when I say symptoms I
literally mean what is your ideal client
experiencing right now like we need to
one of the jobs of marketers is to get
into the world of our ideal clients to
try and put ourselves in our shoe in our
ideal client shoes so we really
understand what is going on in their
world and talk about what they're
experiencing and that really going back
to this trust down here this is really
one of the fastest ways to build trust
with people is to show them that you
understand what is actually going on in
their world right so if you don't know
this and if you struggle a little bit
with this the best thing to do is to
find a client that you enjoyed working
with in the past and go and interview
them go and ask them like what is going
on in your world right now like what is
happening for you dayto day what are
some things that frustrate you what are
some things that you want more of what
are some things that you want less of
like really kind of put your detective
hat on and imagine you're trying to get
into that person's world so that you can
paint a picture of what it looks like
and that is one of the first things that
really good marketers do they paint a
picture of that person's current world
so that that person feels like they
understand them better than they
understand themselves and there was a
great phrase which I again use quite
often and I can't remember so apologies
to whoever came up with this and believe
gets passed around the marketing World
which is this idea that when you can
articulate somebody's challenges and
goals better than they can they then
unconsciously give you permission to
solve them said another way is once you
can show someone you understand their
world they then trust that you know how
to help them with their problems and
their challenges right so the first part
of overcoming this Obstacle of need is
hey we can help you get more of this
thing and less of the thing that you
don't want and if you don't have this
then you don't get those things and that
is why you need it
right so that is the kind
of first concept or first big idea of
addressing this concept of need we have
to show them that we understand their
specific situation and we have to talk
about their pain points their
frustrations their desires and their
goals and really demonstrate how and why
they need the thing that we do and how
and why the thing that we do relates to
those goals and those challenges so
that's the that's the first thing the
second thing is desire how do we get
people to actually want this thing well
we just talked about desire here right
so one of the key ways that we can
attract more clients on social media is
by talking about what they want right
getting really clear in specific terms
this is the important part and this is
the part where people kind of generally
mess up and I'll give you some tangible
examples here so what typically happens
when I say to people you need to talk
about what your ideal clients want is
they start saying well they want to grow
their business right or they want more
money or more revenue and that's fine
but most people want that so you haven't
necessarily got my attention if I go on
to social media and I see someone saying
like hey you can have more clients hey
you can have a bigger business you can
have more money hasn't really got my
attention and so the key to
desire is being specific and so I'll
give you an example one of my clients is
an audio production business and he's
worked with Incredible people he's
worked with the BBC he's you know big
big names and one of the things he
wanted to do is he wanted to kind of
install a system that allowed him to
stop relying on referrals and word of
mouth so one of the first things we got
him to do is really focus down on a type
of person that would benefit from audio
and audio branding and So based on his
background and his story one of the
areas he focused on was Sports and so
specifically when we're talking about
desire what he drilled down into was a
sports club's desire
to create raving fans to create people
who not only just kind of came to a few
matches but bought season tickets
that they really wanted to have an
incredible atmosphere on Match day so
instead of talking about audio branding
which his clients probably didn't really
care much about or didn't really know
anything about he started talking about
their desires and he got really specific
around them right he didn't just say hey
you can have better audio for your match
days he said what you really want is you
really want to have people that keep
back that keep spending money you really
want to have like a better atmosphere at
your games etc etc so he got really
specific about what those outcomes were
so needs is more around sort of problems
and things that people are experiencing
we touch on desire but desire is really
about this it's about being specific so
that they start to want those things
like yeah I want that right and then
we're going to link that to our to our
so the the pain and the desire kind of
cover these top two things now we're
going to talk a little bit about trust
and this is a really interesting one
because as I said I really believe that
we are in the trust economy right now
and it's harder and harder to get
people's trust so I'm going to share a
little diagram with you here which is
basically about trust so if you ask a
client or a person to commit to
something which is long-term and
potentially recurring I.E a retainer
like hey sign up to a Year's retainer if
they don't know much about you they will
perceive that as extremely high risk
right that feels very very risky and so
the way that we build trust with people
is we offer things to them that feel
very low risk very low commitment and we
demonstrate value and so I call this the
prospect pathway because it's really
about this concept of if somebody is
cold like they've never met you they are
down here and they are very risk averse
okay and so what I see a lot of people
doing a lot of creative business owners
doing is they will talk about a
particular thing they might even get on
a call with a client and talk about a
particular thing and then they will send
this proposal for like multiple five
figures and this client doesn't really
know them that well and so it's a little
bit like going on a date you have an
incredible time you meet this person and
then at the end of the date you go wow
this is amazing do you want to move in
with me right it's like okay some people
might say yes to that but I would say
the majority of people would be scared
Away by that and that's happening to our
clients right now that's actually
happening because we're going in with an
offer which is way too high risk and so
what we've got down here is something I
call the irresistible offer and the
irresistible offer has a few key
attributes the first attribute it has is
that it's free so we're actually going
to offer something to somebody upfront
of value that is
free and it's going to be irresistible
it's going to be based on their desires
it's going to be based on their pain
points and it's going to be based on
things that they actually want right so
the things that we talked about earlier
down here like that's what our
irresistible offer is going to be based
around now I'm not going to go into a
huge detail about this because I
actually recorded a video for this
Channel all about how to build an
irresistible offer and what it is so I
will link to that video but before you
go racing off watching that stick around
so I can tell you how to create urgency
and qualify to see if they have any
money so the first thing we're going to
do is we create an irresistible offer
this is like hey there's this thing that
solves your pain points and your
challenges and it's free and so
hopefully a bunch of people are going to
want that and this is where the
qualifying criteria comes in so remember
up here I said one of the obstacles to
the sale was money right can they afford
it and so what we do is we offer a lot
of value up front in our irresistible
offer and we in that irresistible offer
we frame it in a way that demonstrates
that this thing can solve those people's
pain points and those people's
challenges for example with the audio
branding that I just used my client gave
away a guide which showed people how to
use audio to create fan engagement and
then the irresistible offer was I will
create a custom version of this for your
sports club that you can go away and
Implement now there's lots of questions
around this like oh why would they not
just go away and do it themselves right
totally get that but that's our
irresistible offer and what we're going
to do is we're then going to qualify
people so when people say like oh that'd
be amazing I would love a custom plan
for my brand I would love to see how
this particular thing you're talking
about applies to me and how I can use it
in my business we're going to qualify
them and we're not going to qualify them
there's a few things that we're going to
ask but we're not going to qualify them
and say okay what's your budget for this
because as I said before most people
won't have set aside a budget they won't
know what we're going to qualify them on
on is things like Revenue team size how
much do they currently spend on
marketing like we're going to talk about
things that signify that they would have
the money and the budget to spend on
this and so one of the things I tell
people one of the things I tell my
clients is when you're thinking about
your qualification criteria think about
what would you need to know about this
potential client if you only going to
get paid when you help them to achieve
the result that they want what would you
need to know about this potential client
if you are only going to get paid when
you achieved the result they want I.E
what are all the things that they would
need in place for the thing that you're
offering to actually work for them right
and that's a great starting point for
those questions right so that's how
we're going to get the money objective
and again the qualifying can take place
via like a form or a call and again on
this channel I've recorded a video about
the qualifying call and the clarity call
and there's a whole framework and a
whole structure of it so I will link to
that below as well uh if you want to
check that out but that can happen on a
call ideally when you're first doing
this that happens on a call because you
can ask more questions you can
understand more about that business
right so that's the part with the
irresistible offer where we're building
trust we're demonstrating value and this
idea is we kind of like ease people in
to this so from qualify we go into what
I call The Logical next step and The
Logical next step is really just a way
that that client can spend a bit more
time and a bit more money with you so
they can build that trust they're not
having to take this huge leap so let's
say your average project is like 30
grand okay your logical Next Step would
be something like three grand they can
spend a bit of money they can get get
some output they can get a result but
they're not actually going all the way
through with the core offer so we're
gradually just kind of building trust
we're gradually demonstrating value
we're leading them by their hand and
being like hey here's how you get more
of this thing here's how what we do can
help you but we're asking for this
massive commitment upfront and that's
really what this Prospect pathway is
about it's about taking someone down
here who's totally cold and turning them
into a long-term client but doing it
gradually and actually doing it step by
step right so let's talk about the final
part which is urgency how do we create
urgency well there's a few ways that we
can do this so I'm just going to open up
another notebook down here just to talk
a little bit about this cuz it's almost
like its own I could probably do a whole
presentation on on urgency but I'm going
to give you a few things now we've all
experienced urgency and we don't want
that we don't want this kind of like
this is going to sell out in 10 minutes
if you don't get it buy now with like
countdown timers on pages and things
like that we want to create authentic
urgency and there's a few ways that we
can do that one of my favorite ways to
create authentic urgency is through
price now this is really really simple
and I actually encourage most of my
clients to do this a few times a year
and what we do is we simply increase our
prices and we tell people that we're
increasing our prices so let's say you
get on a sales call with somebody and
you present an offer and they say yes
this is great you know let's get back to
you it's really really simple you just
say okay great you know take as much
time as you need just to let you know
that at the end of this month we are
raising our prices so the price I just
quoted today is this but in a month's
time it's going to be this and we do
this several times a year every single
year and we do it because it reflects
the Improvement in the quality of our
service and the skills that we're
learning but we also do this to keep up
with inflation all of these reasons why
you should continue to increase your
prices right so most people do this they
increase their prices every now and
again but they just don't communicate it
with people and I think ethically you
should communicate when you are raising
your prices and so a price raise is one
of the easiest most ethical most
transparent ways to create urgency cuz
it's like hey you can have it for this
price or you can have it for more the
exact same thing in a month's time now
I've got clients that actually put this
on their proposal so they have a
proposal and that price is valid for a
certain amount of days it expires but
what they do is they actually show them
what the new price would be now
obviously you can do this the other way
around where it's like a discount if you
sign up before a certain time the reason
I don't like doing it that way is
because psychologically people think in
their head that you're then the kind of
business that gives discounts pretty
easily so I don't like that
psychological way of doing it I prefer
the
increase the other one is capacity right
now this is something that we all have
but we don't really talk about so right
now in your business you have a certain
capacity to work with clients you can
only work with a certain amount of
clients per year now when I say that to
people often they say well we just hire
more people and usually that's the wrong
way to go about business because as hosi
says and as Daniel Priestley says there
is no supply and demand tension so in
order to actually have urgency in order
to actually have a business that makes
profit you need supply and demand
tension so if you think about things
that sell out like the big Festival in
the UK like glastenbury or the recent
scandal with the Oasis tickets like what
happened there was there was just more
people that wanted that thing then there
were that thing available so Daniel pry
talks about this in his book over
subscribed and it's a really cool
principle and if you want your business
to be profitable and you want it to be
successful then you should be aiming to
get oversubscribed I.E you should have
more people that want to work with you
than you have capacity for so the way
that we do this and the way that we
create urgency is we
continually
announce or signal to the market to
people we're talking to what our
capacity is is so let's say for example
you can only work with let's say 12
clients a year right and that's your
capacity currently as your business
stands that's your capacity that's one
client per month so when I was talking
about helping people and when I was
doing my irresistible offer and when I
was communicating on social media I
would be constantly communicating we
only work with one new client every
single month we take on one new client
every single month and then when I sign
that client providing that they allow us
to talk about it we don't even have to
say who they are we could just say hey
we filled our quota for this month we're
now signing clients for next month right
and then what you actually want to do is
continue to have sales calls but say to
that client hey we only take on one
client a month we're currently signing
for next month and see if you can get a
deposit from them to start that project
next month now you've got we're booked
up for the next two months we're
starting in X month and it does a few
things number one it creates genuine
urgency because people realize you you
do have a capacity and you can't help
everybody right you don't have capacity
to help everybody the other thing it
does is it signals to people that you
are in demand so going back to
oversubscribed Daniel Priestley has this
concept in the book where he talks about
people buy what other people want right
so it's like if someone's signaling they
want this thing our brain goes well this
must be cool right everyone's buying
this thing so there's a psychology
behind this as well right so price is a
really easy way to to do to create
urgency capacity is a really great way
to create
urgency and the other way that I like to
create genuine
authentic urgency is through bonuses now
these have unfortunately being tired
slightly because people use them in the
wrong way and people use them in a way
that feels very salesy and feels very
sort of scammy but in your business
right now there's going to be a bunch of
stuff that doesn't cost you a lot to
deliver but is actually really valuable
for your ideal clients and so I would
really think about what those things are
I would list them down and I would have
these bonuses available and look you can
call them something else if the word
bonus feels a bit salesy to you call
them something else like extras or for
Li mited time so for example we've got a
web design client a web design
development client and when they do a
proposal and when they create an offer
for somebody they actually include a
yearfree hosting right because it
doesn't really cost them that much they
include a yearfree hosting they include
SEO audits they include like two or
three things but they only include it
for a certain amount of time so it's
like hey if you want to go ahead with
this these extra things here we're going
to include this to kind of sweeten the
deal but they're only available for
Limited time right
so that is a genuine way of creating
urgency for people the final way of
creating urgency is by talking
about the cost of inaction we talk about
return and investment which is Roi you
might have heard before hey if you do
this thing this is what it will help you
with this will be the return on
investment but very rarely do we talk
about COI cost of inaction
right what is it actually costing you to
not have this thing right now on a
monthly basis on a daily basis whatever
it is right Alex hosi has got a great
example that he always uses where he
talks about what people actually want to
be earning and what they're really
earning now and he looks at the
difference calculates the difference and
says that is what you're currently
paying to not know how to reach your
current earning goal so it's a little
bit of a salesy way of doing it but it's
really important that we demonstrate to
people so in my client's case does the
audio branding what is it really costing
you like how many people are leaving the
stadium like coming for a game and
leaving the stadium and not coming back
those people that could be buying
tickets could be spending money on food
could be supporting your team what is it
actually costing you right now to be
losing those people and so again when
we're talking about content when we're
talking about communication it's really
about communicating this to our ideal
clients because they probably haven't
thought about it and so when people
realize how much it's actually costing
them to not have this system in place to
not do this thing then it creates a
sense of urgency so these are the five
things that that we need to overcome and
this is the best way that I know to
overcome them this is these are the five
things that we need to do so just to
quickly recap first of all the client
must have a need they must understand
why they need this thing and the way
that we help them to see that is we talk
about their symptoms what's currently
going on the pain of what's going to
happen if they don't do this or don't
have this thing properly then we create
Desire by talking about the things that
they want and linking it to their
business and we need to be specific
right it's not enough just to say hey
get more clients get whatever if you can
link it to specifically what they want
more of in their business then you will
be way more successful so that's kind of
how we communicate then when we actually
engage people to build trust we want to
deliver value upfront we want to deliver
value for free and go from low risk to
high risk slowly we want to take them on
a journey and we do that by using
something called the irresistible offer
and so that shows them that they can
trust us because we're giving a lot of
our best ideas away for free we're
giving a lot of our best thinking away
for free we're offering something
upfront of value we're not asking for
anything in return we then want to know
that they've actually got the money to
invest and that's where our qualifying
criteria comes in down here and
then we need to have some urgency and
the way that we create urgency is
through price uh through communicating
our capacity through giving bonuses or
taking away bonuses and then talking
about the cost of inaction so they are
the five things that you need to do if
you want to get clients on social media
more consistently I would love to know
your biggest Insight or takeaway from
this video if you have any questions
drop them in the comments below I read
all of them and hopefully you found this
valuable my name is Matt essome I'll see
you soon