he just gave you valuable information
did you realize that if you said
comfortable he's moving on budget what
makes sense to him he's like well 30k
what's the difference between these two
10K okay so maybe you might want to ask
a question about that we have to have
fun if we're tense they're tense okay
you do if you're nervous they nervous
because you're nervous okay see how fast
you guys want to get straight to
Solutions
why okay you've made a lot of progress
yeah okay yes should we do this one more
time and let let him land the plane okay
I I'm sorry I hate to
[Music]
thanks for the information ali uh what I
what I'll do is I'm going to think about
it go ahead and send me some information
over the email and um I'll get back to
you no problem that sounds great can I
ask you what will be the deciding factor
honestly I just have to really look at
uh the numbers and I have to talk back
to my team to see if this will fit with
within what uh or we think is going to
be appropriate that sounds perfect is
there range of number you can give me
for something that fits your budget
that's something that we'll probably
have to evaluate so I I can't give you
that right
now
okay I'm stuck here great okay I'm I'm
going to redirect I'm going to give you
some I'm going to coach you now okay
okay whatever he says ask him question
about what he said okay there's a reason
why we keep doing the same thing over
and over I hope you guys pick up the
pattern let's start from the jump Carlos
is being kind of a douchebag right now
just let you know and you need to
respond to that okay you got to roll
with this okay play with him this is a
dance it's like he's dancing over there
and you're going to the corner it's not
like you guys are not in sync get on
sync first all right well thanks for the
information uh I'm going to think about
everything you share with me go ahead
and send me an email with the
information and I'll get back to you
when uh we reach a decision okay no
problem what will be the deciding factor
you think for you oh stop what words did
he say what was the first thing he said
he needs to what he's going to think
about it stop what of question you need
to ask him um what exactly you want to
think about change your tone please add
a little curiosity to her let's bring a
little love into this okay we have to
have fun if we're tense they're tense
okay you do if you're nervous they
nervous because you're nervous okay
smile let's go through thanks for the
information I'm going to think about it
go ahead and send me the proposal over
the email and I'll get back to you with
my decision that sounds great out of
curiosity what we think about I would
say we really got to see if the budget
and the numbers are going to are going
to really make sense for us you know I
got to run it by my partner who needs to
evaluate all the other options they were
thinking about like talking to someone
else so I just want to see if that if
they're we're going to go that router
with you guys okay is there a specific
budget you guys are comfortable
with yes can you tell me that okay let's
pause did he use the word
comfortable what word did he
use well no use word budget I I I take
notes for you guys if you wear your
glasses and you look at the board sense
yeah what so instead of saying what
budget would be comfortable for you what
should you say what budget will make
sense to you might make sense to you
might take sense okay all right you see
the language this is where I was
disagreeing with with with uh Carlos
before it's like use his language don't
introduce a new word and if he's going
fast there's two things that you can do
you can address it or you can ignore it
what would you like to do address how
would you address he's going so fast
with you right now if you don't mind if
you can slow down I no no no okay now
you're telling him what to do yeah if
he's going fast you can address it by
saying I I Carlos I might be getting
this wrong are you late for a meeting or
is something going on I'm sensing a
different change in energy here then
he's going to slow left down he will and
you'll see okay you see what I'm saying
or if he keeps going forward you don't
really need to do this anymore it's not
a good fit okay he's decided you you're
not the guy okay make sense yeah okay so
let me think about it and I'll get back
to you awesome out of curiosity what
you'll be thinking about we got to make
sure that the numbers make sense and I
need to talk to my partner because he's
looking at someone else and I want to
see if between them and you who's going
to be the better fit perfect and uh when
you say numbers make sense what numbers
make sense to you in terms of budget
based on what we talked about we're more
in the level of like 30,000 you know
your proposal was like 40 and so it's
it's it's a big reach compared to like
what we were thinking about okay that
sounds great to me I actually like you I
I would like to work with you can we
adjust the SC scope to match your budget
hold on are you doing Solutions
already okay remember we're not in
Solutions we're just dealing with the
objection see how fast you guys want to
get straight to Solutions
why okay you've made a lot of progress
yeah okay yes should we do this one more
time and let let them land the plane
okay I I'm sorry I hate to do this take
back from the
top okay take back from the top remember
everything you've know thanks for the
information I'm think about it and talk
to my partner and review your proposal
and get back to you perfect out of
curiosity what you'll be thinking about
we want to see if the numbers make sense
and we also want to talk to I'm going to
talk to my partner because he's looking
at some other vendor as an option and
want to make sure which one is probably
going to be the better fit that sounds
great and you said Mak sense what
numbers would make sense to you I think
we were looking more in the in the range
of like 30,000 your proposal is like a
little bit above that and so so I don't
know if it will make sense for us to
stretch it that much I I'm stuck here I
don't know you got so much time to think
about it what what else might he say he
just gave you valuable information did
you realize that if you said comfortable
he's moving on budget what makes sense
to him he's said well 30k what's the
difference between these two 10K okay so
maybe you might want to ask a question
about that how much you think the
$10,000 that's difference between your
budget and my proposal will impact the
success of this project
that sounds almost like selling again
let's walk away from that if you don't
think it's great or perfect don't say
it's great or perfect okay CU it seems
disingenuous like it's like oh let's get
out the phone go kill yourself perfect
I'll go kill myself that doesn't make
any sense all right Watch How I do this
okay cuz I'm going to demonstrate a
couple things I noticed also in your
language I would love for you to insert
a few pauses here and there okay okay
we're taught like the dog jumps over the
fence we just read the dog the dog jumps
over the fence it changes the meaning
okay and I'll show you how I do it okay
here we go hey thank you for the
information I'm going to think about it
talk to my partner and send me that
information via email and I'll get back
to you with my decision okay before I
send you the information in the email
I'm I'm just curious what do you mind
sharing what you think about what you
need to think about we you need to
really look at if the numbers make sense
and my partner's also talking to someone
else about uh potential services so we
want to evaluate between you and them
before making a final decision I so
there's another decision maker involved
here yes and you're going to evaluate
what will you use to evaluate is it
purely budget or is it something else
budget is one of those things uh but the
other piece is uh if like the look and
feel of of the logo design is going to
fit with uh our company's personality
and our mission
and all those things okay so let's let's
address one of the things uh is the
budget that I proposed okay with with
you does does it make sense for you it's
a little bit above the what we what we
expected uh how much above do you mind
me asking well it's we were around the
closer to the 30,000 Mark and you know
you're a bit over that I see so uh looks
like we're about
10,000 $10,000
apart if I can't make the numbers work
for 30 is that the single deciding
factor or would would you weigh some of
this other stuff we talked about in
terms of look and feel and personality
fit um if if you have something else to
propose that would make closer sense
towards our goal I think we we're
flexible to talk about it in an ideal
world what would that look like to
you well
from what would I guess what would I
sacrifice if uh if I were
to what would I gain if I would if I
were to go I guess a little bit more
than 30k let's say if we do
35,000 oh okay so
we're a little closer together now so 35
is more palatable for you yes okay what
else would hold you back from working
with a company like ours well I want to
make sure that you know um the target
client that we want and um like the
Aesthetics and the technical design and
the Simplicity and really what our
vision is for the personality and and
feel for and based on based on what
you've seen so far do you think like
we're a good fit that we would
understand the aesthetic and the Target
and the process that we've described to
you thus far yeah I like the work that
you've done in the past um and so we're
just really on the on the fence between
you and these other guys because they
they do similar work to to what you what
you do so it sounds to me like the
ceiling for what you're going to be able
to spend is 35 do I understand that
correctly or is there room for okay do
you have any other questions and
anything I can talk about that might
help you get clarity on who you would
like to work with no I mean I think if
we could just jump on a call with my
partner well we could probably lay out
those details together I appreciate your
time Carlos I understand there's always
other people involved in in the
decision-making process so I I think I
can accommodate you at the 35k if it
makes sense to you let's reschedule and
let's get everybody on the phone and see
if I can't answer those questions then
okay okay let's let's reflect what do
what do you guys think so I feel it was
important moment not to miss the
partners and the team part cuz
apparently it's not just team is there's
someone else who makes decision with him
listen pay attention on many details
that's it write that down throw the mic
listen pay attention to all the details
like every word he says matters yes I
just thought it was interesting that you
didn't upsell him and yet he met you at
a higher price like without even trying
he just by you like asking more
questions you want to know why I did
that as a default because some
buyers they actually do like someone but
initially probably want to play hard
ball and because he was so effective at
asking me question I was like willing
already to give up because I felt like
there was some potential loss aversion
of like well if I don't work with you I
might lose the opportunity to get a
really great designer see when you chase
they run but when you run they chase mhm
it works both ways there's only one
person that can always beat you at your
own like in an argument do you know who
that person is yourself yourself people
say stupid dumb things they never think
about and they're just testing like
children and they test the boundaries
and then you're like well you want to
run outside without your clothes on go
ahead no I don't really want to do that
dad like why wouldn't you want to do
that cuz everyone see me naked okay what
else I might get hit by a car okay there
might be a crazy dog who bites off you
know Parts okay right what do you want
to do I'll stay inside keep my clothes
on all right sounds good to
me see what I'm doing there yeah yeah
you'll see it again and again now if you
if you ever go back and rewatch the role
plays you'll see I'm doing the exact
same thing over and over and over again
people are like what is he doing have
you ever walked into a retail store and
you really are looking for something but
when someone comes in and says can I
help you the first thing you say yeah no
just looking right but have you ever
caught yourself going just looking do
you have this in a large yeah
yeah it's a defense mechanism and
sometimes our buyers will do that too in
the objection piece or you like an
introvert like me like can I help
you not today I'm excited to tell you
about a Workshop that juel and myself
and Carlos Garcia are doing October 12th
in Miami full day workshop and the
second one is in London it's a two-day
workshop that's October 29th and 30th
here's the analogy I want to make for
you you don't read a book on how to play
baseball you just go out and play
baseball and then in the swings and the
practice coaches will make little
adjustments for you and you'll see your
game improve you don't read a book on
how to play tennis you just go out the
court and you hit lots of balls and so
we're expecting ourselves to read a book
on sales to watch videos or to do role
plays that are 10 15 minutes long at
best and we think we're going to have
this transformative moment now a lot of
you do achieve this regardless of how
you you consume the information but the
best way that you learn how to do
something is just to do it and the only
way I know how to do that aside from
wasting potential business opportunities
is to go to a workshop where you can get
that individual attention from coaches
who care about your success
[Music]