you're probably feeling a lot of anxiety
when you have to justify your prices I'm
going to give you two different
strategies that you can apply today so
this becomes an issue of the past have
you ever been in a position where a
client who's interested in working with
you and that you're also mutually
interested in working with has asked you
this very painful question why does it
cost this much or I can't afford this
and you start to go into panic attack
you get that cold sweat your heart
starts racing because you think my God
it's so long since I've heard from a
prospect a live lead and now they're
asking me this very difficult question I
feel compelled to capitulate to
compromise and lower my prices
immediately and I I I don't know what my
my brain freezes or maybe have a really
strong negative emotional reaction like
how dare you why would you say that to
me you want to hit them back it's like
that's an insult to me as a human being
to my training and everything I've ever
done how dare you it's indignant for you
to even ask that question and you give
an unprofessional Outburst have you been
in that situation I want to tell you a
little story there's a friend of mine he
called me late at night in a little bit
of a similar situation where he was
panick where a prospect that he really
wanted to work work with because this
person this guy was very influential
High net worth High net worth person
it's like I really want this gig and
this friend of mine called me and like
Chris they asked me like we can't afford
this is too much money and I really want
to work with them what should I be doing
and here's how I counseled him so first
of all take a deep breath all business
is a negotiation take your emotion out
of it they're not insulting you it's
just how two business people talk about
a thing it's a price it's not you it's a
price it's not your selfworth it's your
price it's not the quality of your work
it's none of those things and you need
to remain super objective here and I've
been in situations like this I was
counseling this friend of mine in the
exact same way I've handled this very
specific thing which is this if we know
they want to work with you and you want
to work with them this is a very good
thing because when two parties are
mutually interest in working together
anything can happen and you can
negotiate your way through all of it
it's when one party doesn't want it that
there's really no point so you want to
work together and you see Mutual benefit
this is what a deal is structured on
this is the foundational layer you get
to use this line and I'm going to say it
to you and hopefully you can use it in
your own business which is hey it sounds
like we want to work together which I'm
very excited to do I can't do it for the
price that you're asking for how can we
get really creative and Design This in
such a way that you get what you need
the have to have and then we can talk
about the nice to have so let's start
there what is it that you have to have
so if you're a videographer it could be
like we have to have the shoot we have
to have to finish edit that's color
graded those are the half to haves and
it has to be delivered by this date we
get that so with that that that's the
MVP this doesn't work at all what are
the nice stabes well it has some title
design has a 3D animation product demo
and it has some extravagant locations if
we say that the basing that you want can
be delivered for this price I can
possibly give you one of those three
which of those three are the most
important and critical to the success
and based on what we talked about I feel
like it's option two or option three but
not option one so you can guide them
through this process too to say like
based on what you want you can spend
money on these other things but I'm not
sure that you're going to get good Roi
on that and you guide them through that
process where the client reaches out and
say you know what we love that you're
flexible we love your transparency your
style of communication we actually think
we want all three we'll go find some
more money how much more is it going to
cost that's a wonderful outcome right
you can say great fine we'll do that or
if they're like you know what we got
what we got for a budget which is more
likely the case there of the three which
one do you recommend then this is where
you can really lean in on your expertise
and and be an advisor or trusted on the
project and say look as much as I want
to make it look like that that's going
to be a lot of unnecessary money being
spent let's save a couple bucks but this
is where I think you're going to feel it
and when you're going to get the best
results given the objectives you're
after and you can do that hey before we
go any further my team just told me that
over 60% of you that watch this channel
are new viewers but you're not
subscribed so I'm just going to ask you
if you're finding this to be valuable
please go ahead and hit the Subscribe
button it helps us with analytics but
more importantly allows me to teach more
people and to feel like I'm doing the
right thing to help you make a living
doing what it is that you love now this
may be overwhelming for you because
maybe you're still new in your business
you're not used to sales and especially
you're very conflict diverse I hear you
I feel you but I want to point out a
couple other things that might help you
see this from a different perspective
from a human psychological level you've
heard me talk about this before so let
me talk about this there's something I
need to clarify with all of you and I
know there's a lot of emotional energy
around this that some of you think the
position that I take and the thing that
I'm advising to you is very pompous and
arrogant and it's the fastest way to go
bankrupt but I just want to check in
with you about the logic and how I'm
looking at this what am I talking about
a little while ago and we'll link that
video right here so you can see it is I
said in a in a workshop never justify
your price because justification is a
sign of conceding the higher ground to
your prospect and if we just map this
out to other things then you'll see why
it makes sense no your initial reaction
is going to be very emotional like of
course your clients need to know how you
charge why you charge you got to tell a
whole story but if you just pause that
thought for a second and I want to look
at things and introduce this concept to
you and I've talked about it before it's
called it's called the symmetry of logic
where if it works one way then it should
work in most other ways but if only
works in one instance and every other
instance in your life it doesn't work
maybe you have to question whether or
not this is a truth or just something
you want to hold on to be true let's
talk about human dynamics because sales
is human dynamics it's social
relationships it's a construct right so
if you meet somebody somebody of the
opposite sex or whoever you're attracted
to you really want to get together with
them and you have some esteem you have
some self-confidence you think you have
something to offer the world it's not
like you're some kind of simp okay so
you're an equal in this relationship
you're not like a a Serial dater where
you're just looking for body coun here
you're looking for long-term
relationship you think is this the one
so you meet them if the first thing they
say to you is like why should I date you
they're asking you to justify to them
why you're worthy of even having this
conversation on a date now many of you
are say hey no problem let me explain
well I have a good job and I I have good
credit or I have a nice car how does
that make you feel about you and what
they're interested in are they
interested in in something other than
you or these markers for them is that
the way you want to begin a relationship
okay maybe you're comfortable giving
those answers but let's try it the other
way where you come up to someone that
you're really attracted to that you like
and the first thing you say to them is
tell me why I should even talk to you
why should I date you would you ever do
that and you're probably going to say no
that's insulting Chris why would I do
that I'm the one who's interested in
them so we want to enter these
relationships as equals we don't want to
see the higher ground when they ask
these kinds of questions and in most
Industries other than the creative
Services bace people do not justify
their prices you go in and ask a car
dealership why is a car price this way
try that go to any supermarket and
asking why does a can of beans cost 78
cents why does that head of lettuce cost
54 cents or $3 why does this green juice
cost $9 go to the car wash ask them why
is it $9 some of them will explain some
of them will not but many of them you're
like this is uncomfortable to even ask
so if it's uncomfortable for you to ask
why do you think it's good for you to
answer this kind of question your price
is are your prices and through a series
of your own calculations in terms of
overhead profit margin cost of living
everything that you need your level of
experience your level of quality you've
determined this is your price and at
this point all you can do and all you
should do is present to your prospects
this is the price I'm not really
negotiable on the price if you don't
want to work with me I totally
understand cuz for every customer
there's a vendor and I probably am not
the right person for you and I find that
any Prospect who immediately challenges
being on the price and ask me to justify
I already know it's going to be a long
day and I've done enough business where
I'm like you know the last time I took
on a client like that I didn't enjoy the
experience and I want you to reflect
back on your life the last time I dated
a person that asked me all these
questions for me to justify myself to
make me prove myself to their parents
that relationship did not go well and
maybe it did work out for you and if it
did by all means keep doing it we have
to understand that if it doesn't apply
in most cases in our life why would it
apply in this one way because you know
why because we're so used to answering
questions
justifying ourselves pleasing other
people cuz we're people Pleasers we're
conflict diverse and we think every
question is a legitimate question it is
not not all questions are legitimate
answering why is it this much or Justify
Your Price is not a legitimate question
in my opinion I know that sometimes when
I share short clips with you all that
you start to get really triggered with
response like how come this person can
be such an arrogant a-hole and it's like
the best way to lose all of your clients
that's why I wanted to spend this time
and give you a little bit more context
and expand the conversation you can see
it's from a point of view of support and
love and to make sure that you don't
just throw uh yourself at a project and
and lose all semblance of self-respect
and control CU actually your clients
will respect you more for it so if you
have additional questions or comments
I'd love to hear them go ahead and drop
them below and I'll do my best to
respond