so you might have heard me talking about
creating demand through scarcity for
events when we want to shift gears and
maybe cuz you're thinking maybe I have a
product or something that doesn't fit
the event space but we can apply the
same Concepts so let's say for example
you have an information product you're
trying to teach somebody something and
that literally is a product cuz you can
buy and sell that at scale what are you
going to do and how can you use weight
list to help you now you're thinking
well if I have a digital product the
quantity is unlimited it's infinite and
that's the beauty of products which you
can sell to as many people as possible
but then now you undermine the key
principle of scarcity because it's still
available because anyone can buy it you
remove some of that demand away from the
product so we have to kind of approach
this a little bit differently and if you
haven't done so I would highly encourage
you to listen to the multiple
conversations I've had with Daniel
Priestley on the podcast he's the person
who wrote the book hey person of
influence and the principles I'm sharing
with you he shared with me and it seems
so applicable the first thing that you
need to do is you have to create a hard
unit meaning I'm only going to sell this
many courses and for whatever reason you
can make up any reason you want so for
example in our coaching Community the
future Pro Group I theoretically can
scale those to be thousands or tens of
thousands of people it's not really
going to impact me it might impact the
perception of the value and it's being
diluted or maybe it's being too noisy
for the people who buy the product so a
while back we talked about this based on
Daniel's recommendation to cap the
enrollment and we do a double cap and
I'll tell you tell you what I mean
number one is we're going to say in no
time will we ever take more than a th000
members into the group so there's a hard
cap on that but the second cap that we
add to that is each quarter we're going
to set aside a finite number I believe
it's 60 right now we're only want to in
roll 60 people per quarter and so now
that's introducing increased scarcity or
potential limiting the supply of what it
is that we're doing so this means that
if you want to get in you have to enter
into that window when we open up
enrollment for just a quarter and if
you're not one of the 60 people you'll
have to wait till next quarter and for
some people that's going to give them
some consternation like they can't
afford to wait another quarter to get
coaching to get the resources and tools
that we provide so how do we do this in
in practical sense well if we look at a
launch window of 90 days which is one
quarter we need to let people know well
in advance when it's going to open up
again so we're going to apply the same
rule right what we're going to do is
we're going to announce to the market
we're going to tell them like in 90 days
or in 80 Days this program is going to
open up again and it's only going to let
60 people in 100 people 200 the number
is not important the commitment to the
number is important that you mean what
you say and you say what you mean so if
you only want to take on 50 students or
100 or whatever it is just say that and
don't get greedy that's the rule that
Daniel Priestley says do not get greedy
do not try to go and oversell it at this
point just say you know what we're going
to add you to the wait list when it
opens up next somebody drops out you'll
be the first to know we which is a
really cool thing and I'll tell you the
beauty of this idea when you sell a
finite capacity there will be hopefully
a number of people who weren't able to
buy which creates demand for people
wanting to get into the program so in
our case it's the coaching program so if
somebody who enrolls in the program who
then says to me later on you know Chris
I put on my deposit I actually changed
my mind I'm like great this is fantastic
I have another person so like wait what
do you mean you have another person well
there's a wait list so that gives them
immediate fomo fear of missing out so
they have to rethink if I lose my spot
when can I get in I don't know it
depends it totally depends you can get
in the next cycle or it might be two
cycles from now I don't know but I'll
add you to the bottom of the list so
that's a powerful Market driver to say
you know what if I lose my place on line
right now it's going to be a while and
if you think about this have you ever
experienced this before have you ever
waited in line at oh I don't know the
movie theater to buy a ticket or for a
ride at Disneyland or your place at a
restaurant we're not going to leave that
line because we know as soon as we leave
we look at the back line we're going to
go back to square one but if I get out
of line I'll lose my spot number two
this is a fantastic idea when is
successful if you have such strong
demand for something that you're selling
and they can't get it it makes them want
it even more some point some of you come
up to you and say hey uh Chris is there
anything we can do to get in the program
we know we're on a wait list and those
are magical words those words mean can
we bribe you can we pay more what can we
do to get into the program and they'll
they offer something like hey I'll pay
you an extra ,000 to get into the
program now we can't afford to wait then
you can literally go to the group of 60
people and say hey does anybody want to
sell their spot somebody wants to buy
for $1,000 they only paid $250 for it or
$700 so now they're going to get their
money back and they're going to get an
additional $1,000 you don't even need to
keep the profit on this one and is a
brilliant idea if you think about it
because now what happens is that person
and everyone in the community realizes
the value of what they purchased it's
worth even more than what they paid for
it so as a psychological effect this is
powerful stuff here this is like black
magic foodoo kind of stuff right the
psychology buying and sales maybe one or
two people take you up on the offer and
then you sell it off and then the person
who wanted to buy who's willing to pay a
premium get what they want and you get
what you want which is a full class sold
that product and you get the
psychological effect of everyone
believing like I paid $250 but it's
worth $11,000 there's something powerful
about that that even though they
literally didn't pay more they feel like
they got more now so whenever possible
you want to employ the weight list you
want to reduce capacity and you want to
let the market know what's happening and
be very transparent about it and don't
get greedy