in the client buying selling cycle you
are the prize all of you are the prize
the reason why is because the client has
fewer options to do what you do than you
have for sources of money what they
represent to you is money what you
represent to them is a highly honed
skill or craft who should make more
money the person who takes the most risk
or the person who has no risk answer
Benji most the most risk Peter drugger
said this in business all profit comes
from risk be a mile deep and an inch
wide most generalists are a mile wide
and an inch deep the generalist usually
has a little bit of knowledge about a
lot of things but very little depth this
is one of the big unlocks that I learned
that will make you a lot more money are
you
ready welcome everybody to Adobe Max I
love doing live sessions here because I
get to work with you a lot of you might
see me on a little screen those things I
hate to do because I'm talking to myself
most at a time it's not very exciting
you know everybody talks about creating
safe space to learn I like to say I like
to create unsafe space because in the
friction is where the real learning
happens it's the push and pull the give
and take between us that I think we get
to some maybe more informed truth I'm
not saying absolute truth but more
informed so the first thing I want to
talk about is idea that I learned from a
business coach it's called radical
responsibility or being 100% accountable
for everything that happens in your life
even things that are not your fault are
your fault because we have to make a
decision how do we get ourselves in that
position or situation such that those
things happen to us the past three years
I've been doing sort of a career change
or getting more into a niche um and
there's an agency in Miami they're very
close friend of mine who all love each
other um but they sort of boxed me in
who I used to be in okay I love this
language hold they boxed you in yeah
right you got boxed in yeah the people
in the back are feeling all the pain
it's like usually this group there's a
lot of pain and Trauma happening over
here they boxed you in okay all right
and uh so let's get right to it what's
the problem we're working on a project
right now and we've worked on similar
projects such as this before and they
know my capabilities they know I can
bring more to the project but they're
limiting me at uh a first initial phase
at the project with very little context
that I'm used to getting in these type
of situations with them uh and no talk
of financials so it's also like okay
this is great okay so he's getting boxed
in everybody heard that part there's uh
no context and no financials right okay
that means they don't talk money so it's
like expecting work to be done and
there's no discussion of money is that
fair so when your friend are they really
your friend yes they care about your
wellbeing yeah they want you to do well
yes there's a lot of poses between those
yeses not at their expense as in well
that's not a friend I mean because if
I'm sitting at home I got nothing to do
but I got to pick you up at the airport
and you're like hey bro can you pick me
up I'm like H not at my expense am I a
friend
no so it's not even at their expense
it's at their expense but this is
business why is there okay this is good
you guys are feeling the pain here
there's a difference between friendship
and business so you guys do all kinds of
things as friends we're good they give
you your shirt on the back they pick you
up at the airport they take care of
their fair share of the bill they clean
up after themselves they'll put away the
dishes Andress I stay over and watch the
dog right okay now we're in business are
you acting like business people now or
like friends business people so Julian
says when we're friends we're friends
and we're business we're business but he
just described a whole scenario where
we're business but he's like for the
sake of the Friendship he's the one
blurring the lines right it's not
business and pleasure but it's business
and friendship and we have to learn if
we don't have healthy boundaries working
with our friends then what should we
do not work with them not work with
friends or figure out how to talk about
it there's something that Blair n says
that he referred to someone else who
said it but I can't quote the original
person he says in the client buying
selling cycle you are the prize all of
you are the prize do you believe you are
the prize yes you believe that yes you
are the prize the reason why is because
the client has fewer options to do what
you do than you have for sources of
money what they represent to you is
money what you represent to them is a
highly honed skill or
craft like there are a lot of
illustrators here throw rock hit one
there's a lot of photographers here
throw a rock in this booth and you hit
one but the way that you frame it the
way you see it the way you tell your
story your Humanity your compassion what
you bring to it is uniquely you they can
get something similar but they can't get
you if you believe what I believe you're
one in eight billion those are good odds
but they're just another person with
money okay you are the prize now if you
feel if this is the result you want to
make more money and this is the action
that you take you set your boundaries
what's the new story you tell yourself
now fi that my work is good
and okay I love that stop there my work
is good I've noticed now twice that fi
has used the word work can we switch the
word work with something else what what
is
good I am good I am
good so for some reason fi keeps using
the word work separating herself but I
am
good right yeah I have value yes
I am good is it uncomfortable for you to
say that it is a little bit yeah yeah
how does it make you feel a little
tender it does yeah you are good thank
you you are
valuable you believe that yeah I do okay
great if we go with the result that we
want and we go to the action that we
need to take to get the result that we
want the action will change our belief
system
which then will reinforce this part and
now we're going to make the money that
we want and we don't have to go broke
and we can help our friends we have free
time and we can go on a vacation this is
why it's called the Mind reset so you
can do this for yourself everybody just
write B you're going to raise the bar
you can change the bar whatever it is
you're going to write your current
belief the action that you take and the
result that you get we take a pause then
you go back to it and you say well what
is the result i' like to have the life I
want to live and then what's the action
I have to take the reason why I think
this is so effective is because what
people try to do is ask you to change
your belief which is what I initially
tried to do with Julian like stop doing
that he's like bro three years man it's
not going to happen if we fast forward
to the result that he wants it's much
easier for us to create a road map to
help ourselves for both personal and
business to go the green route where
would you start the result the action or
the to repair the process you start with
the results you
want we always start with the result we
set our SES into the future some people
would call this a desired future State a
DSF oh DFS desired future State have you
guys heard of that term before a desired
future state does it make sense what it
what it means there's a current state
like one where my friendship feels like
they're taking advantage of me I'm
feeling resentful I'm not making any
money I'm questioning my life decisions
I'm proving my parents right about
making bad decisions in my
life okay and then you go that's my
current situation what is the desired
future State well I'm working less I'm
making more money I'm working with good
people who value me who pay what I want
actually they're even more generous they
pay me more than what I want so I can
have a vacation so I can save up money
for my kids tuition start with the
result think about the desired future
State follow-up question yes is this
more effective to do
with another person or other people or
is this an exercise we should do by
ourselves yes yes the answer is yes
thank you try it on yourself does
anybody feel like they couldn't do this
by themselves for themselves it's not
complicated right okay there's a general
rule okay when we're unclear in our
thinking we use lots of words I think
it's called word salad have you heard
that yes you know think about a salad
you toss things around and like what did
we eat I don't know iceberg lettuce Zero
nutritional value
people get nervous they speak a lot when
you're nervous you speak a lot when you
have the mic and the camera on your face
you will speak a lot so my encouragement
to all of you is say it simple or keep
it simple stupid kiss keep it simple
stupid you use too many words because
words sound nice but you're not actually
precise in the words that you choose
you're not at that level yet so just
pretend you're talking to a
five-year-old I don't even say fifth
grader 5-year-old needs to understand it
and then what you have to do is you have
to reduce the meaning of life and your
complicated things thinking into
something simple so what you can do is
later today we're going to go all deep
in AI we are we'll teach you how to say
it in the most complicated way and have
ai coach you how to say it simply you
can use chat gbt Claud perplexity
perplexity to help you learn how to
speak more simply communication is what
they call a durable skill it's a
transferable skill of the 21st century
those that know how to communicate will
be leaders they'll charge more they'll
be sought after and especially in this
world now where almost everybody can be
replaced by some form of AI we need to
learn to be better thinkers critically
thinking and to articulate or
communicate our ideas yes with our
children with our spouse with our
parents with strangers with clients it's
a valuable skill to learn you can use AI
to help coach you have you guys ever
built a house before like either watched
one or put the hammer into the nail the
most important thing they say is what
get
the foundation right so the foundation
of your house will look like this now
I'm going to draw kind of like a child's
version of a
house right something like
that okay if the foundation is not level
you got problems if it's not square or
Plum you got problems because all the
walls built off that foundation so your
foundation is like your core skill a lot
of times we will tie it to our identity
yours as the graphic designer does
everybody know what their core identity
is it's usually what you tell people
what you do I practice that a lot
okay it's what you what Malcolm Gladwell
would describe you put your 10,000 hours
of practice into deliberate Focus folks
work right so how many people are really
niched
down okay the more niched you are the
more repetition you get doing the same
problem how many people are are serial
killers here slashers like a
photographers SL model SL artist you're
a serial killer then on the slasher
films yes that's the problem okay now
you've heard this before undoubtedly
you've heard this right be a mile deep
and an inch wide most generalists are a
mile wide and an inch deep what is their
confidence level I don't know the
generalist usually has a little bit of
knowledge about a lot of things but very
little
depth where's your confidence coming
from generalist
God no I don't know I don't know where
does it come from I'll hit you and you
and them all right
yeah where does your confidence come
from you you you got it okay hand out
the mic right there right behind you
what is your name Anna come on
up I just need to be sure of I'm many
have fired I'm a generalist you're a
generalist what do you generally do uh
brand brand yeah okay are you confident
yeah where does your confidence come
from from then the ability to bring
those deep people together to do the
right things okay this is excellent yeah
an it gave me the one answer I can
accept she hires people that's right
right she a boss so if you hashtag you
know boss lady it works it really does
generally speaking CEO executives are
generalists they need to know a little
bit about a lot of things because they
put teams together so they know enough
just to be dangerous and then they pull
in the expert but they need to know just
enough to uh separate the good people
from the bsers that's all you need to
know have you ever been in a project
where you paid for the project I have
and I think I'm pretty smart we have
literally spent more money than what we
got so I bought the
project yeah if you ever do music videos
you pay for the
project so you know all those music
videos that you might see on our on our
demo reel like lost money lost money
lost money the reason why it's really
risky here is because if you don't know
what you're doing you build a project
and you don't Define the scope clearly
the client's like hey you didn't say I
couldn't do that guess what now you're
doing it they have more lawyers than you
they have more power than you you're
going to do the work and then you have
to say oh my God next time I have to fix
that problem make sense okay not to
scare you away from this now the reason
why I point these two things out the
buyer and the seller whoever takes the
risk who should make more money the
person person who takes the most risk or
the person who has no risk answer Benji
most the most risk so Peter duer said
this in business all profit comes from
risk does everybody understand that in
business all profit comes from risk if
you invest in the stock market the one
that has the biggest payout is what tech
companies crypto companies pretty much
scams they make the most amount of money
because you know going in I might lose
all of my money that's why they say
don't buy stocks with money you can't
afford to lose we're looking for big Roi
if we didn't we' buy like a government
back Bond or something like that we
understand that because it's not risky
at all this will help you out a lot
because when you're talking to your
clients and they ask you for what a
guarantee what are they saying to you
when they ask for Guarantee what are
they saying to you on the on the topic
of risk you want to say it 100% they
don't want any risk therefore what does
that mean to
you no give her the mic please she's got
all the ideas and you're assuming all
the risk therefore therefore you have
the greatest to either earn or fall out
so what should I do if I'm taking all
the risk what should I do calculate it
as best you know what he's doing with
his thumb uh up the price Jack the price
up okay if you have total autoc
collision insurance if you have total
home protection versus uh what is it at
fault you know you're paying more if you
have total health insurance whatever it
is
complete coverage you got to charge a
lot more so I get this question a lot
Chris I can't guarantee results I can't
do this I'm like what if they ask for a
guarantee I'm like happy to give you a
guarantee really happy to it's just
going to cost four times as much oh I
don't really want to guarantee like that
I see you get out of it because now you
understand the risk part I'm trying to
build a foundation of like economic
Financial knowledge for year does
everybody understand so far okay I
promise you this
if you understand this and you execute
on this you'll make more money than
anything you attend today
[Music]