to the topic of how long it should take
to close a client the answer is it
depends it depends what's going on
depends the size of the problem you're
trying to solve let's just use an
analogy if you're going in for a
toothache it should be a fairly
straightforward procedure but if you
have internal organ issue possibly
cancer we should not rush into any
prescriptive action at all so the
general rule of thumb is the larger size
of engagement I'm talking about six
figures mid six figures even to the
seven figures it's going to take a lot
longer for you to close a sale and the
reason why is people need to do the due
diligence they have to figure out is
this going to break are you who you say
you are who are your clients who have
you worked with and they're going to
call and check for referrals and
references and things of that nature
however if we remove the size part of it
out ideally you're able to assess the
client's needs and determine a fit on
the very first call and part of the fit
check is the budget part this is the
thing that a lot of creatives struggle
with because they're uncomfortable
talking about money they have challenges
about self-worth and they want to delay
the money conversation as long as
possible because they feel that if they
say the number and the client say no
it's going to be not just a rejection of
the proposal but it's going to be a
personal rejection and you're going to
feel like a failure so rather than
broaching the subject of money you'll
you'll do small talk you'll try to be
friends with the person and then you'll
get to the end of the aotted time and
you'll still have not talked about
budget so then you'll hurriedly say "Why
don't I send you a proposal?" Or they'll
say "Hey it sounds pretty good send me a
proposal." And then you'll work hours
sometimes days on the proposal you'll
send it to them and you'll never hear
from them again we unfortunately refer
to this as ghosting like they ghosted
you we feel really bad and you have a
right to feel bad cuz it feels like
you've done work you were making a
connection but then ultimately they
don't even have the courtesy to tell you
it's not a good fit let me tell you a
couple different things here put
yourself in the role of the person who's
the buyer not the seller when someone
talks about services or product or
something that they're going to sell to
you you're probably sitting there
thinking about money can I afford this
is this more than what I need are you
the right person for me and they're
uncomfortable at this that it's taking
so long for you to talk about money and
then eventually in their mind they have
a number even though they don't say it
even though they might not admit it they
have a number in mind and if you go
beyond that number they're spooked
they're like "Oh maybe I budgeted too
low i was overthinking this or whatever
it is so when they receive that number
in an email as a PDF or something that
you sent a hard copy over they're now
stuck with the dilemma of what do I do
now i've already wasted all this time
talking to Bob or Mary do I want to
really call them or send them a whole
letter and actually I got a thousand
other things I need to do today i just
need to think about this it's causing me
too much stress to make a decision so I
just wait so as the hours turned into
days and days turned into weeks sometime
they've already moved on for whatever
reason they're like "You know what i
don't I don't know what to do with this
i'm going to not make a decision." I'll
give you a perfect example right now
quite literally we're having our pool
worked on because there's some water
leakage problems and when they open up
one problem they find a new problem and
then I got another proposal sent over
and it's not a little bit of money it's
like $7,500
i did not wake up this morning thinking
I'm going to pay another $7,500 on top
of the nine I've already spent to fix
the pool problem and so I'm delaying and
delaying and then the contractor is
wondering like when are you going to
make a decision so they're not sending
their people out you see the problem
we're guilty of it on both sides now you
can't control what it's like to be a
client but you can control what it's
like to be a seller of services so you
owe it to yourself to be super clear
upfront about what it is that you do how
long it's going to take and especially
how much it's going to cost now there's
a lot that I personally talk about in
terms of valuebased pricing that's an
advanced pricing strategy i don't
recommend it for everyone especially if
you're probably watching this video it's
more than what you need just sit down
and think what should I charge for work
like this and build a little bit of
flexibility in your language so that if
it's more than that you can say "Well
this is what it should start at." And if
there's nothing crazy I can deliver the
project for that price but if you want
to add other kinds of things we can sit
down and do a more customized bespoke
solution or proposal for you but it will
cost more and the the importance here is
that you're able to talk about scope and
budget and the deliverables and outcomes
that they want on the very first call if
possible that's all we need to know now
even if it's a high six figure or seven
figure job you don't want to go through
weeks of procurement of due diligence
only to find out they were thinking
50,000 and you were sitting there coming
in at 500 grand so once we general
orders of magnitude of the scope and the
budget then we can continue on the
process of closing the client but if at
any point it doesn't feel like it's a
good fit then you should tell them I
cannot in good faith move forward
knowing that we're not going to be
compatible with each other for a number
of reasons it could be for budget
scheduling expertise or just a good
chemistry fit it could come down to that
like you want to move really fast I
don't move fast or I move really fast
and I can see that you need days to make
decisions and it just doesn't work for
me the best thing for us to do right now
is for me to connect you with someone
who's more compatible with you with what
you want with your budget your timeline
and your temperament and shake hands and
hopefully sometime in the future we can
work together here's a quick power tip
for you i know it can be very
uncomfortable to talk about money and
I'm going to share something with you
that you can try and see how it feels
the number one thing you want to do is
you can say something like this out of
respect for your time and mine I'd like
to discuss the budget upfront so that if
it's not a good fit we don't have to
waste time knowing that it's not going
to work out anyways and then you just
tell them and this is the price now
before we get into it I'm not even
committing to this but I just want to
let you know the ballpark price is going
to be $5,000 or $15,000 or $50,000
whatever price point you want to say put
in your number there and so you need to
then be still and see how they respond
how does that sound to you Mr mrs client
and they say "That sounds perfect we're
in the ballpark you're a little bit high
it's actually a lot less than I thought
but you're getting valuable information
at this point and you have to be super
attentive to not just what they say but
how they say it the tone of voice and
their body language i heard this clip
from Vanessa Van Edwards when she was
talking to Steven Bartlett and she goes
"The body lives in reality it's only the
mind that lives in imagination so when
we say something that's not true our
body will communicate that knowing that
it's not a true thing." So just think to
yourself like the last time you said
something that wasn't true like how did
you hold your body be mindful of how
they're holding their body not just
listening to what they're saying because
here's an example when you like would
you like to move forward and they say
yes so the body says no the mouth says
yes right so yes that's telling you
something is not connecting trust the
body before you listen to the words in
just a few months we're going to hit our
400th episode of this podcast and before
we get there we want to take a moment to
really listen to you our loyal listeners
if you're open to chatting with my
producer Rich Cardona or someone on his
team we'd love to hear from you just
fill out the short form in the show
notes it takes less than 20 seconds