[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey ruffer it's ta from lemlist i saw
you started a trial and wanted to know
how you find the tool saw you're only
using email in your campaign so far i
was coaching one of our sas customers
they'd never tried multi channel before
so i showed them how to mix in linkedin
and call steps when it makes sense using
best practices from the industry it
helps them double their reply rate happy
to share what's been working for them
let me know if it's relevant that's
impressive very nice most linkedin sales
message campaigns get around 3% reply
rates now take a look at this one reply
rates 29% the difference less than 1% of
reps at sending voice notes that's why
we started using ai generated voice
notes they let you scale what works
without spending hours recording
messages with tools like 11 labs you can
clone your voice or use one that sounds
even better it feels human and you don't
have to record a single word and with
lemlist you can drop these voice notes
right into your outreach campaigns so
today i'll show you how to create one in
under 2 minutes and where to plug it in
to start more conversations let's go
first of all why should you send ai
voice notes well if you want to stand
out in someone's inbox you've got two
real options: videos or voice notes
videos work but let's be honest they're
a pain to scale and they're a lot more
work and ai generated videos still
clunky they feel stiff and robotic when
you want to add more than just a first
name to personalize that's where most
people get stuck they want to
personalize but doing it manually takes
forever here's the problem when folks
try to scale quality drops fast i mean
what's the point of recording a
voicemail note if you're just sending
the same one to everyone and for those
who keep it real they often freeze they
just don't know what to say plus
linkedin voice messages only work on the
mobile app that means you need to use
your phone to do everything manually
it's a huge pain in the ass so now
you're stuck a voice notes are the sweet
spot they're fast and they're human you
get messages that sound natural without
awkward pauses or stiff delivery and you
can do it at scale for everyone not just
your top leads let me repeat this you
can send personalized voice notes to
everyone in your list without spending
your day recording your voice nice
that's why air voice notes work they're
fast personal and they get replies okay
but when should you send voice notes
well let's start with timing voice notes
only work if they land at the right
moment when they actually move the
conversation forward drop them in
randomly and they fall flat too early eh
feels weird too late the moment is gone
so where do they actually work after
sending over 1,000 campaigns of ai voice
notes we found there are two sweet spots
the first one is right after someone
accepts a connection request everyone
sends the same dry thanks for connecting
message or worse the dreaded "how are
you?" first name don't do that send a
quick friendly voice note instead you
stand out without trying too hard here's
how it looks in a campaign invite
requests voice notes then double down on
calls and emails for your follow-ups
sweet spot number two when someone
ghosts you yep text follow-ups feel
pushy a voice note feels human it acts
as a pattern interrupt sounds like you
care not like you're chasing here's how
that looks inside a real emy's campaign
email email linkedin message and boom
voice notes the voice note fits in right
here now the part you've all been
waiting for how do you send voice notes
actually work well the first tip is if
you're a sales rep don't send the voice
notes as yourself i mean keep your
linkedin touches for your tier 2 and
tier three leads for your tier one
you'll want to send a voice note from
your ceo or a relevant vp it feels more
credible in your lness campaign select
ai voice message then choose a sender
i'll go with our ceo charles i'm simply
doing this because sea levels prefer
hearing from other sea levels or
decision makers it's normal now let me
show you how to do it with a quick
script next you pick a voice or clone
your own now i strongly recommend
cloning your own especially if people
might recognize it follow the steps it's
all very intuitive now write your text
and add the personalized variables just
like you would in a message i'll be back
in a second so what should you write
well if it's your first message here's a
good voice note hey john hope you don't
mind the voice note figured it'd be a
nice change from all the dms you got
this week quick thing came to mind when
checking your profile if struggling to
book meetings with your outreach is
something you're running into we
actually put together a complete guide
that shows how to tackle that and book
at least one meeting a day with your
outreach campaigns if that sounds
helpful i'm happy to send it over no
pressure just let me know have a great
one first of all that's amazing tech now
here's a much more personalized version
hi eric make sure you focus on helping
brands discover their unique market
position a client of our prospects
technology companies for a branding
agency they help teams struggling to
stand out in saturated industries and
connect authentically with their target
audiences i noticed you're doing
something similar if you're open i can
share the exact email campaigns they use
to book 25 plus meetings per month now
if you've already messaged them but got
no reply you can go for this hey brenda
thanks for accepting my requests a few
days ago just wanted to follow up on my
message i mentioned i could provide a
guide on the five steps to use ai in
your outreach it's a short video i
shared with a few others i'm passionate
about helping sdr implementing ai in
their outreach sequences the right way
if this sounds useful i would love to
chat you see when i click the generate
button here's what happens lenmiss uses
the latest 11 labs model to turn your
script into a voice note that sounds as
natural as possible it's the only sales
engagement tool that offers this on the
market so feel free to test it and
that's it you now have everything you
need to stand out without spending time
on personalization these ai's voice
generators are your secret to booking
meetings test it see it enjoy it so the
bottom line is this no one's doing it
that's why it works ai voice notes make
it look like you're in the top 1% of
reps before you've even said a word you
stand out immediately and with emist now
integrated with 11 labs it's never been
easier just real human sounding messages
at scale cool huh but if you want to
take it even further check out this next
video where i show you how to use ai
variables in your multi- channelannel
campaigns i'll see you there
[Music]