getting
new clients in 2025
it's a grind you send cold emails but
they land in a sea of spam you drop
LinkedIn messages but they get buried
under a pile of copypaste pictures
nobody wants to read a generic message
and most of the time you don't even get
a reply i'm Rafa and at MLlist we use
Loom videos and voice notes to stand out
in that noise especially when we spot
intent from qualified leads that's when
we turn conversations into meetings
here's the truth inboxes are flooded
attention spans are short and no one has
time for a message that looks like it
was sent to 1,000 other people you can
get up to 19% high reply rates when
using Loom videos in sales outreach now
if you're wondering how to use video the
right way to start real conversations
and book meetings keep watching so why
send videos in the first place text on
emails don't stand out anymore
everyone's using them truth is
everyone's ignoring that so how do you
get someone's attention and actually
feel like a human some people get this
wrong they think the goal of a video is
to pitch their product in 30 seconds but
that's not it you see your video should
do one thing get the other person
willing to talk to you that's it want to
build trust you want to feel real not
robotic and you want to give before you
ask that's why video works it's personal
it's human i mean look at us now and
when you show up with something that's
actually useful for them like a quick
idea a live walkthrough or something
visual you've spotted about their site
or profile they're more likely to reply
that's the power of reciprocity you give
first they respond but hey if you don't
have anything visual to show send a
voice note instead same energy same goal
break the ice especially if you're a
full cycle account executive because
when you call them later they already
know your voice your face your vibe and
that makes the conversation way easier
to start so when should you actually
send your video let's be clear this is
not about blasting 1,000 people with the
same "Hey I made you a video message."
No one cares personal videos take time
so don't waste it if the lead's not warm
too many people rush the video they drop
Loom links that trigger spam filters
because remember links trigger spam
filters they push before earning
attention that's how you get ignored or
worse flagged if you want a full guide
on email deliverability save this video
for later it might be useful especially
if you plan to send videos which I guess
is why you hear here's how to send video
the smart way in your sequence wait
until I've accepted a LinkedIn request
or reply to your first email then send
the video now it feels invited not
intrusive want to send at scale without
burning your domain use tools like
Lemnist you can send hundreds of safe
personalized emails without spamming pro
tip use a video GIF or GIF instead of a
plain link when sending videos it makes
people much more likely to click and
watch by the way do you say GIF or GIF
another trick I like to use is if they
open your last email multiple times or
click a link these are buying intent
signals strong enough to justify it's
worth it to make a video so here are a
few examples hi first name i've been
following company for a while now and
finally put together a few thoughts on
value proposition can I drop a link here
so you can take a look or hi first name
I spotted something weird on your
website onboarding mind if I show you
where i made a quick video p.s if
someone else handles this happy to talk
to them instead i don't want to waste
your time and lastly hi first name i was
looking at company's website LinkedIn
products and noticed a couple of areas
that might be hurting your pain point
rather than write a long email I
recorded 90-cond Loom video showing what
I found and a quick fix that could help
company improve would it be useful if I
sent it over cheers for a connection
request on LinkedIn it might go like
this hi first name i saw your post about
topic and loved your insights i have a
quick idea on problem area that I
thought would be easier to show in a 1
minute video then explain in text mind
if we connect i'd love to share it with
you leave the connection request blank
then one message with the video hey
first name your website caught my eye so
I made a quick loom to explain why see
you soon then you send the video simple
personal invited bonus use videos to
bring cold leads back to life we've all
been there you send the proposal you
follow up and then silence you could
send another just check in an email but
let's be honest that rarely works if
they didn't care then they sure as hell
don't care now it feels like a nudge not
a reason to reply so instead drop a loom
say something like "Hey I know things
get busy so I made a quick 2-minute
video to recap where we left off." in
the video remind them of the value
tackle any possible objections and bring
back some human energy into the
conversation it shows effort it shows
you care and more often than not it
brings the deal back to life nice
we're going to use the ADA framework
that's a attention hey first name i like
the design of your websites but I ran a
quick SEO audit and I noticed a few
things you could fix right away interest
your homepage has no H3 tag that's a
missed opportunity for Google to
understand what your site is about your
images are way too heavy some are over
one megabytes that's slowing your site
down which can hurt your rankings you've
got broken links in your footer that
lead to 404 pages that's a signal of
poor site maintenance desire that's not
all some problems on your website go
deeper like JavaScript rendering issues
and incorrect canonical tags they're
harder to spot but they quietly hurt
traffic every day we helped Random Tech
with the same thing a few small fixes
and within weeks they saw their traffic
double if you're open to it I'd love to
hop on a quick call and show you what we
found just name your video for first
name so it feels personal and that's it
you're done remember a good loom isn't
just a face on a camera that's what most
people get wrong they talk too much
about themselves they give everything
away in one go or they try to sell too
hard too fast that kills curiosity and
trust so here's why that video works
first of all it's short aim for one and
a half to two minutes especially for
cold videos attention is limited so
shorter is better number two it's
talking about them not you we spend 80%
of the video on their problems their
business and things you noticed you only
need 20% to build trust and show you're
legit number three it builds trust fast
in one line mention your experience or
result don't brag just make it easy for
them to trust you number four it creates
curiosity don't explain everything in
the video hint result not the process
leave them thinking "Okay how do we do
that?" Finish with a light call to
action don't sell just invite say "If
this sounds interesting happy to share
more." Last but not least the follow-ups
realistically most people won't reply to
your video right away some won't even
watch it hate to break it to you but
that's normal you do the same that's why
follow-ups are not optional they're
essential if they don't respond it's
your cue to keep the conversation going
through nurturing here's what our
nurturing sequence looks like we get
value in every touch point stay top of
mind and slowly build interest without
being pushy if they did watch the video
but didn't reply that's a signal do not
let that effort go to waste pick up the
phone call them because that extra step
can change everything then move across
channels linkedin email phone keep it
coordinated that's exactly what Lemnist
helps with staying organized following
up across channels and always adding
value trust me the money's in the
follow-ups especially after they've seen
your lovely face and heard your voice
now if you want help writing follow-ups
for people who aren't engaging with your
Loom check out this video right here
that was Rafa from Limist peace