could you ask permission before sending
me a novel please Another one Wow super
original You know how to use chat GPT
but I'm not an AI
again I don't even know what that is Do
your research Booking meetings in 2025
So many reps get it wrong They copy
paste a cold email with a long salesy
pitch and hope someone replies But you
see LinkedIn isn't for that It's way
closer to WhatsApp or a text message
People scroll fast They reply even
faster So if your DM looks like a novel
no one's reading it You need to sound
like a human not a template This video
I'll show you exactly how to do that
step by step Again no fluff just stuff
that fills your calendar with meetings
But before that let's make sure you're
not wasting time on the wrong platform
So should you do LinkedIn outreach Let's
talk about why it actually makes sense
to use LinkedIn for your outreach In my
opinion there are four good reasons that
make LinkedIn mandatory You don't have
their email or phone number You've got
the lead but no contact info LinkedIn is
your safety net It's sometimes the only
way to reach them without losing the
lead Your message will get delivered
LinkedIn has a 100% deliverability rate
No spam folder no bounce They'll see it
pop up on their phone every time Your
decision makers are there If you're
trying to reach VPs directors sea levels
this is where they live Leaders build
their brand here and they check their
DMs You can warm them up for your next
touch Even if they don't reply right
away your name sticks So when you hit
them later via email or phone you're no
longer a stranger But here's the catch
LinkedIn limits how many people you can
reach If you're using a free account you
get about 20 invites per day with four
to five messages in connection requests
a week With a paid account however you
can get up to 30 or even more depending
on the plan and unlimited messages in
the connection request So yeah you don't
want to waste these touches and keep
them for your tier one accounts Is it
dangerous to run LinkedIn outreach
automation In theory yes According to
LinkedIn's terms of service using bots
or automation to script data or send
messages is not allowed But here's the
real story Most LinkedIn tools are
tolerated as long as they don't mess up
the user experience If your tool acts
like a human blends in and keeps things
smooth LinkedIn usually looks the other
way So how do they catch people breaking
the rules Well it's not magic It's just
a few red flags You're active at 3:00
a.m when you live in Paris You send 50
messages in 2 minutes or you open 20
tabs a second like you're a hacker in a
movie That's what gets accounts flagged
So if you want to stay safe here are a
few simple best practices to follow
Limit your volume I insist If you're
using Lemness to automate your LinkedIn
outreach campaigns your default limit is
20 invites a day for a reason If you're
on a premium LinkedIn account you can go
up to 30 Don't push more than that It's
not worth it Pick a smart automation
tool The good ones mimic human behavior
They delete cookies use rotating IP
addresses and match your location If
you're based in Berlin and your LinkedIn
suddenly logs in from Brazil yeah
LinkedIn will notice So bottom line
don't look like a robot because you
ain't one How to get leads using
LinkedIn There are two ways to get leads
on LinkedIn Let's break them down
Inbound leads These are the people who
come to you They liked or commented your
post They asked for your lead magnets
and they viewed your profile These leads
are hot hot man They already know you
exist They showed interest But here's
the tricky part with inbound sales You
don't control who they are They might
just not fit your ideal customer profile
At least you can influence who shows up
How By sharing posts that speak directly
to the problems your ideal customers
face If you focus on lead magnets that
offer clear solutions to those problems
you'll naturally attract people who
actually need what you sell Isn't that
what you want So the more relevant your
content the more qualified your inbound
leads But most sales happen through
outbound You see with outbound you pick
who you reach out to On LinkedIn you can
use filters to find the right people
before pushing the list to your sales
engagement platform And if you have
sales navigator you get way more precise
filters by job title company size
industry location you name it You can go
one step further by adding intent
filters such as people who visited your
profile or companies that use a specific
technology By the way if you have LM
list you can use the Lemist B2B database
It saves you an extra sub you don't
really need Now one underrated trick use
your network If someone is a firstderee
connection message them directly If
they're a second degree connection and
you know someone in common ask them for
an intro That's pure gold baby So if
inbound is about timing outbound is
about control You don't wait You go get
the right people How to book meetings on
LinkedIn All right this is the part
you're here for isn't it How do you go
from a cold connection to a booked
meeting on LinkedIn Well first here's
what not to do Don't have a generic
average profile Your LinkedIn is your
landing page Before someone accepts your
invite they check who you are If your
profile says sales at least that's game
over Why Because no one wants to be sold
to Instead focus on outcome Add
something like "I help sales team hit
their targets or follow for real B2B
marketing insights from the tech
trenches or I help companies
entrepreneurs and agencies drive traffic
and revenue through strategic content
creation That's what I do." In part
you'll know what you'll get if you
accept these people to join your network
Now they know exactly what you can do
for them and you differentiate yourself
from 99% of other sales profiles out
there We could go in deep on content
strategy to build trust but that's for
another video It's apply We see you Also
skip the emails I don't want to see them
They scream sales pitch and usually get
ignored for a good reason The only time
to use them if you're doing ABM and want
to drop an extra touch point like a bit
of content or an ad Now let's talk about
messaging LinkedIn works in two steps
Get in the network When they accept
they're giving you permission to talk
Then start the conversation Not the
pitch the conversation And here's the
golden rule If you pitch in the
connection request you're dead Seriously
nothing screams delete louder than a
threeline cold pitch before someone even
knows you So what should you do instead
We'll actually get to that next How to
get your LinkedIn connection request
accepted There's a bit of a debate here
Should you add the message to your
connection request or not If you already
share three to five mutual connections
skip the message The social proof is
usually strong enough But if you don't
have mutuals only write a message if you
have something relevant to say And by
relevant I mean something that couldn't
be sent to a thousand other people I
know crazy right So here are four
message types that actually work The
genuine compliment 75% acceptance rate
Hey Tal I found myself binging your
content Love your post on email
deliverability and thoughts The next
natural step was to send you a
connection request Best Santa sealing
audience attention 40% acceptance rate
but deeply results orientated I noticed
you liked person's post about getting
more website visitors I think you'd be
interested in an ebook I wrote about
increasing traffic this year Can I share
it with you and get your two cents
Simple networking It's a bit of a trick
but a rep at lemnist did it on his
profile and viewers got a solid 60%
acceptance rate Hi first name Just a
simple networking invite LinkedIn has
recommended your profile to me three
times now Curious to learn more about
what you're up to The referral angle
Anything below 50% of people accepting
this invite would look odd I first name
Notice we're both connected to referral
I'm looking to connect with experienced
job titles and your profile stood out
would be great to connect Now if
personalizing each one takes too long
use tools with Lemnist's AI variables
and a model like perplexity you've heard
of it you can build hyper relevant
intros like so company just launched AI
feature I bet competitor is sweating Are
you the one leading the GTM at company
To do it add an AI step in your sequence
before your connection request That's
where you drop your prompt to define
what you're looking for I like to use AI
to find things like if they're VC backed
their most recent feature launch who the
main competitors are and whether they're
SOC2 compliant Depending on your niche
you can dig into the details and find
something that grabs attention fast If
you still want to go manual for this
step no worries It's just a toggle to
swap Last tip if you want to boost your
acceptance rates by 18% Do this one day
before you send the request Like and
comment one of their posts It takes 30
seconds tops But now they've seen your
name and you don't feel like a stranger
How to write the perfect message If your
prospect accepted your connection
request great Now don't blow it This
isn't the time to pitch This is the time
to talk to build trust to understand
their world You're forming a connection
So your job now is simple Lead with
value Ask questions and do not sell The
goal figure out what problems they're
facing Do your little diagnosis and only
then if it makes sense Suggest something
that could actually help One great
approach is Socratic questioning Now
what is that It means asking open-ended
questions that spark thought You're not
digging for a yes or no You're starting
a conversation Here are some ways to do
it Make an observation Notice you
recently hired three SDRs Looks like
you're launching in a new market Saw
your post about shifting GTM Focus Big
move Then follow up with curiosity Quick
question Have you ever tried doing
whatever to support that Have you ever
thought about alternative approach Do
you think pain point might come back
later in the process The key here is to
spark curiosity or tap into something
they care deeply about Example just got
a cold call from one of your reps I
hadn't heard of your company before Have
you ever looked into warm outreach Might
be something worth exploring If they
don't reply you follow up And here's
where you get creative Take a page from
Willken Shout out to him Follow up with
context in a new format Drop a quick
voice note or record a short video You
can usually do this inside lemist Add a
voice note to your sequence and hit send
Less than 1% of reps do this If you do
you will stand out Here's a voice note
structure that works Hey so just a bit
more context on why I reached out I saw
you've been doing cold calling and it
looks like a lot of your reps are
calling people without any intent
signals Now imagine turning that around
and boosting your answer to meeting rate
by 36% That's what warm calling is all
about Instead of calling at random you
start with an email or LinkedIn touch
point Then when someone opens clicks or
accepts that's your moment to call With
a tool like Lemlist you can set advanced
triggers in your campaigns to do exactly
that We've been working with teams like
Gorgeas and I thought it might be worth
a quick chat Let me know Happy to keep
it casual Another one Hey just a bit
more context on why I reached out I
noticed you've been doing whatever and
it looks like challenge Imagine being
able to specify the desired result I've
been working with similar company and I
thought it might be worth chatting Let
me know Happy to keep it casual Another
angle that works well Leverage social
proof Use your customers messages like
this Hey first name So you're connected
with client name We helped them go from
pain to result and now they're using
keymetric Would love to share the exact
strategy we used to get there Want me to
send it over Keep it short Keep it real
Keep it helpful But what if they don't
reply So you send a great message and
nothing happens Should you stop there do
nothing Of course not That's your cue to
shine On other channels maybe LinkedIn
isn't their thing Cool Send them an
email Want to get even smarter Use
advanced conditions to guide your next
move Example they opened your LinkedIn
DM but didn't reply Perfect moment to
give them a call You sent a custom video
and they didn't watch it Send an email
summarizing what's in the video Add a
quick hook to spark curiosity and get
them to click Multi- channelannel isn't
a fancy tactic It's your best shot at
getting a reply and avoiding the ignore
pile And let's be honest if you spent
time building a list of the right people
people you know have the exact problem
you solve then don't give up after one
try Follow up Try another channel Try
another angle Give yourself a second
chance Until they say "Not interested."
You're still in the game Don't give up
All right let's wrap this up LinkedIn in
2025 isn't about pitching It's about
earning attention starting real
conversations and playing the long game
Remember use LinkedIn when you can't
reach leads elsewhere or when your
spotted leads are highly qualified for
what you do Don't sound like a
salesperson Sound like someone worth
talking to Keep the messages short
relevant and personal Ask smart
questions Listen then suggest only if it
makes sense Follow up across channels
until they tell you to stop or accept
This isn't magic It's just good outreach
done right If you want to book more
meetings treat LinkedIn like a real
conversation And if you're not sure if
you should add cold calls in your
campaigns or how to do it check out this
video right here