what is one thing that you want more of
right now that's going to be help to
your life and to your career what do you
want money money money is not what you
really want you want to do something
that by doing that thing people value so
much they give you money what's the
maximum that you can charge it's
Limitless everybody it is only limited
by the value that you can generate if
you do good work you're really good at
what you do what's a theoretic limit I
don't know I haven't found it the
problem with some of these scammer
influencer people is they take more
money than the value they give people
who have mastered building a personal
brand have created outsized influence
that their company benefits from
directly and indirectly so if you focus
all your energies on marketing and doing
more advertising you might be using your
money not as smartly as you could what I
would do
is it's always amazing for me like when
we throw out on the internet we're going
to be somewhere and then some people
show up and then more people show up and
it gets really hot in here um but I'm
always excited to chat with you usually
the construct of the the meetups is to
maybe provide a different side to what
we do that you normally don't get I'm
borrowing Concepts that I barely
understand but I package them in way
that I think maybe might help you apply
it so if there's anybody who knows much
more than the surface level of this they
I welcome them to to join in on the
conversation so when we see people post
content on social media most people use
social media as a form of advertising
advertising is so dominant in the in
popular culture that we think the only
way we can talk to people is to
advertise them and what I ask people to
do is if you reflect on the content that
you post on a regular basis how much of
that content is selling and positioning
you as an
expert how much of it is you promoting
something that you're doing where you're
going to extract more value than what
you're giving into the world and then
you start to see there's a
disproportionate amount of content
content that you're putting out there is
thinly disguised as advertising and
marketing for your Professional Service
firm yes that bothers me a bit and I say
that also because we did that at the
beginning of our content strategy so if
you're there Circ of January 2014 I'm
I'm a bab in the wood I don't know what
I'm doing and I'm posting content almost
all of it is like we tease the course
material such that you would be left
wondering oh I need to learn this
therefore I must buy this from you can
anybody predict what happened then with
the content and how audience felt
there's only one
anybody a sales funnel it is a sales
funnel absolutely right somewhere in the
back we are advertising and selling to
people in a very interruptive way and
and almost no one wants to open up their
email to read an ad or to be sold to
almost no one shows up and looks through
a magazine or newspaper or or watches TV
to see the ads when I say almost no one
there's always a few weirdos like the ad
people who show up to watch us the ads
because it's part of the tradecraft
which we understand right and that's
part of their their cultural language to
understand what XYZ brand and what XYZ
agency is doing but the rest of us we've
become pretty good at tuning that out I
come upon Carl Young Yan philosophy or
therapy right so there's this thing
called The Shadow word and young unlike
Freud has a different relationship with
the ego right so this is the the the
stuff you can Wikipedia right or the
thing that g GPT will tell me the ego
regulates between the shadow
the things that you have anxiety that
makes you nervous that makes you feel
some sense of shame or guilt and the
Persona and the Persona is who you show
up in the world to be accepted yes so in
in youngian ideology the ego regulates
these two make sense so far most of us
live in the Persona and we don't even
know it we live in the Persona we dress
a certain way we speak a certain thing
we we pursue a a professional career
because someone told us that's what you
do to be accepted and it's it's kind of
important to understand this to be not
accepted by Society to not to feel like
you have a tribe it's a very scary thing
you feel really isolated alone and as
social creatures we need to feel
connected to other
humans intimate like in small circles
and also in larger circles like if you
go to work and you don't dress the way
that people dress you're going to be
isolated right so we've gotten really
good at blending in to become like
everybody to to be quote unquote
normal and I'll tell you why there's
problems with this if you look up in the
dictionary the word normal it it kind of
means
average the standard normal so we have
ego and we have it regulating between
your Shadow Self the
Shadow and the
Persona so we talked about the Persona
is you show up to be accepted right to
to be quote unquote
normal and normal is just another word
for average so we're okay saying I I I
want to be normal I don't think we're
okay with saying I want to be
average anybody here want to be average
but that's what we're doing we're
showing up to blend into being average
and so this seems counterintuitive if
you want to build any kind of social
media following if you want to be any
kind of thought leader in fact to be a
thought leader to be a 1center according
to Mark Manson you have to be a
contrarian you have to go against what
the what everybody believes to be a
contrarian
okay in a contrarian you could say well
it's a flat Earth Chris so we have to
add one more word in you have to be a
correct
contrarian okay so you have to find like
where everyone goes this
way you're going to go this way but you
have to be right and that's a difficult
part
so a lot of this is you developing your
your point of view of the world sh
sharing your lived experiences and
finding the angle where almost everybody
believes it to be this way and then I'm
going to go this way how many of you
have been struggling to write
consistently good posts and stories
probably everybody in the room is
because you don't know what defines your
character that's why this is just First
Step okay so what happens is I don't
want to write so you might get through
like post 1 through 10 or 1 through 100
but by 101 or whatever you're kind of
stuck you know what to do so I'm going
to make a prediction as to what you
mostly do you follow some person social
influencer says oh you're stuck use this
headline use this hack 10 content ideas
so you're creating pieces of content
that not tied into the larger version of
who you are you're just writing little
stories they're like Standalone episodes
that don't tie back to this universe
that you're building around you does
that make sense and the problem with
this it might work at the beginning you
get a hit you get a hit and you get a
dud and you're like who am I writing for
who am I what's the story I'm trying to
tell so in your world as the main
character in your Universe you kind of
have to have pretty clear defined
character let me ask you something what
is one thing that you want more of right
now that's going to be a help to your
life and to your career what do you want
money money is that what you said okay
all right before we go there cuz I
always ask people what do they want they
say money and they said lots of it right
okay money is not what you really want
you want to do something that by doing
that thing people value so much they
give you money money is the result not
the pursuit itself because I've seen
lots of people pursue money they're
they're neither happy nor Rich it's kind
of weird right I believe this like money
is a metric that is measuring impact so
the more impact that you can make in
life the more money you will get
so then the real question is how can you
create this
impact what is the impact you want to
create in the world what money does is
it buys your freedom that's the whole
point of
money
right and to be rich rich in that you
can afford to spend time with whoever
you want for as long as want doing
whatever it is you want that's what we
all want you don't always need money to
get there so sometimes we think we need
more money but what we want is more
freedom and not freedom but freedom to
do what it is is that gives us joy
ultimately right cuz sometimes more
money doesn't actually do that for you
all right so the reason why I suspect
and I'm not casting any judgment on you
right now if you're unclear about the
impact you want to make in the world
there's a good chance that you're not
going to make a lot of money and you're
going to have less Freedom if you shoot
photos photographers are pretty upset
right now because there's so many people
doing it so you have to innovate a
little bit in what you do but what is
going to help you and it's hard for me
to tell you this because you're you're
looking at your primary need your first
order which is I got to feed myself so
what you do is you do the very thing
that is not going to help you grow your
Authority that's the
problem I don't know how else to tell
you that because everywhere I go I'm
like work on who you are tell that story
and we can talk about how to do that and
then people go right back to here's what
I do I need a client so I wrote this
little document it's very little and we
call The Four Agreements it's a play on
the same idea but it's a different it's
a different idea okay number one is you
must do good work and I'll explain what
each one of these means you must do good
work there's a lot of people who look at
the concepts in which we teach haven't
put in the energy and effort to do good
work and so they're they're just living
on top of a lie if we can just agree in
this room that you've put in the time
practice and intention behind doing good
work like the Malcolm Gladwell like the
10,000 hours of deliberate intentional
practice you do good work does anybody
not do good work who's so new into their
field or pretending right now then no
one will raise their hand but I'm sure
there's one or two people always there
is you do good work next uh you charge a
fair
price for this good work that you do
charge a fair price people are like well
what is fair that's a complicated word
word I understand so what you have to do
is just give more value than what you
charge that's
it right so if you charge $100 for
something all it has to be is $11 or
101b whatever it is that make
sense so the question I have for all of
you to think about is what's the maximum
that you can charge what's the maximum
that you can charge is there a maximum I
don't know is
there it's limit it's Limitless
everybody it is only limited by the
value that you can generate all right
watch this it's not a magic trick if you
do good work you're really good at what
you do
what's the theoretic limit I don't know
I haven't found it your client's value
value you can no no no I can charge
whatever if they don't value that's a
whole another story I'm just saying if
you pay me a million dollars I give you
a million plus the more I can give the
better I can sleep at night right so
number three is we act in service of
others this one's really tricky for you
guys not you specifically but mostly for
Crea
that if we serve others ahead of our
need to make money we can be honorable
in how we run our business so that means
very rarely does the client have a
problem that you can
solve if you accept that you'll take
away most of the pressure in the buy
sell cycle with the
prospect so when they when you hear a
problem that's is not to your benefit
you must recommend to them you must
pursue that it's my recommendation based
on what I've learned from you today
unless things change that you pursue
this other option unfortunately I don't
do that I can help find you
somebody or at least this is what I know
somebody else might tell you different
but I'm telling you this based on what I
know that's it the last one is always
act with Integrity that means you're
willing to do the difficult
things that's it over there in the back
by the door to answer my question but I
was going to ask if there were ever any
occasions where there could be two Works
CU I think um I think if you if you're
teaching something perhaps you've become
so good at teaching that the skill that
you're working on as well you put your
10,000 hours into they can combine in a
very very positive way yes the answer is
yes if you can teach what you're doing
while you're doing it you've Advanced to
the next level very few people know what
they're doing how to do it even fewer
people can teach others how to do it so
teaching is a critical part to your own
development so if you can teach other
people how to do what you do number one
you become much more efficient you
become seen as an authority and you get
to help other people and chances are
when you help other people you make the
kind of impact that you want to make and
your audience grows I make my marketing
department have the same philosophy and
try to what philosophy is that um um
focus um try to combine your skills with
learning these different streams and
Maring and it work with it well whenever
we ask a question like that we search in
our mind what company's been able to
pull that off if we can find zero
companies then we say probably not then
but we find a handful even just one
where like it's possible maybe not
probable but it's possible I live in the
state of mind where I think if it's
remotely possible for anybody the first
thing is like why not
me why not
me and I'll be the first I'm okay or if
I'm the second that's a fine too okay
the question I thought you were going to
ask is a little bit different so let's
say this your company right and the
company mostly talks about what they do
cuz they're mostly getting new clients
so when you start to build your personal
brand your
PB it doesn't feel that connected so
what do you do you wind up talking about
more of what you do so you just became
you just become more of the same become
super noisy right but I know this if you
were to look up on Twitter and see how
many followers Apple has versus how many
followers followers Tim Cook has huh
it's
disproportionate Tim Cook has way more
followers as Does Elon Musk versus Tesla
as does Richard Branson versus virgin
right so it's telling you something here
that the people who have mastered
building their personal brand have
created outsize influence that their
company benefits from directly and
indirectly so if you focus all your
energies on marketing and doing more
advertising you might be using your
money not as smartly as you could