if I don't understand what you do I
don't know how to saying you can help me
therefore I don't know how to give you
money pretty straightforward so
confusion and complexity they're the
enemy of understanding if I don't
understand what you do I cannot remember
what you do and then I can't tell other
people what you do I worked with my
business coach for 13 years the thing he
told me to do that allowed me to double
my Revenue in one year actually less
than a year how do you know what
somebody wants without asking them what
do you want what inspired you how will
you decide who you want to work with and
I said to him k
so we're going to talk about uh your
elevator pitch do you guys have a good
elevator pitch the mistake that most
people make on the elevator pitch is
they just talk about it's like that joke
that they did at the Democratic
Convention me me me me it's just all you
and people tune out okay so we got to go
from me to
you so this is like self-centered and
other other centered and what that's
what we have to do all right let's just
go around the room since we don't have a
lot of people uh let's start over here
with Tay what do you do Tay I'm a
fractional CMO okay so we just go
fractional CMO I had the mic to the next
person what do you do multimedia
designer graphic
designer okay next teacher what do you
teach digital media multimedia designs
or deep
MD teach can I just do digital media
yeah okay DMS ux researcher perfect ux
researcher beauti
beautiful next I own a one person motion
Design Studio motion designer you see
how this is going friend you just follow
the template motion designer perfect
okay beautiful brand designer brand
designer okay so if you were to meet
somebody and give them their elevator
picture and they elevator picture I'm a
fractional CMO what's the problem when
you tell somebody you're a fractional
CMO what's the problem some people might
not know what that means you know what
CMO means right
Chief marketing officer CMO CEO cro CTO
see you later no okay so there there may
you don't have to worry about that
because if somebody's looking to hire a
fractional CMO they will know what that
is they're not because they're not
hiring a fractional CMO but there is a
potential problem of people not
understanding what that is okay a
multimedia designer T since you have the
mic what could possibly be the problem
with multimedia
designer real broad multimedia I think
yeah everything everything that's the
problem yeah okay I'm telling you right
now what you're trying to do is avoid
confusion cuz if I don't understand what
you do I don't know how to saying you
can help me therefore I don't know how
to give you money pretty straightforward
so confusion is our enemy confusion and
complexity are the enemy of
retention okay they're the enemy of
understanding if I don't understand what
you do I cannot remember what you do and
then I can't tell other people what you
do that's the problem so we go down the
list graphic designer what's the
potential problem with graphic
designer pretty freaking broad he
designed packaging consumer packaging
Goods he could design identity systems
logos he could be handl we don't know
that's the problem and you go down so we
know what a teacher is but what subject
do you teach and then we get into
digital media which moal media it's like
you guys love abstraction the only
problem is we're asking the other person
who potentially can give us work to do a
lot of thinking on our
so the way that we change the script is
this
okay we have to follow a very specific
formula and it'll get you really close I
know creative people hate formulas
they're like no you can't tell me that's
a formula for my creat creativity you
kind of rebel against it so the first
question is we have to ask ourselves who
who do we help
right and what is a big problem that
they deal with or frustration what gives
them a headache
what do they struggle with so we're
looking for a
problem of course the problem is
something that you
solve
right now as a teacher who are you
teaching 11th and 12th graders high
school students seniors and juniors
right but high school students okay high
school students so your answer would be
high school
students and what is the problem with
high school students that you solve
what's the big problem they have seeing
if they want to get into this
field okay how would you say that I
teach a from the high school student
point of view yeah career path career
path making sure that they wanted
uncertain about a future yeah but say
like I'm a parent what are you doing for
my child again I'm um showing them a way
to have dual enrollment um they are
working on their portfolio so that way
when they go into college or if they
want to start working with clients that
they'll have a the ability to start
showing what they can do okay all right
this is kind of interesting that was
super Complicated by the way not very
memorable either right okay because if
you do that for a group of parents who
are meeting other teachers what are the
what's the probability they're going to
remember you not great but I'm going to
show you how to do this okay so what we
want to do is we want to add an
adjective in front of the high school
student let's add an adjective what kind
of high school students are they
creative right so now you can say you
know and you to the parents you would
say your kids who are creative right so
what problem do creative high school
students have that you help
solve give them purpose find a field
okay what's the negative version of that
feel
what because we're trying to find a
problem they feel what if you don't have
what purpose you feel unheard yeah what
else what other words are you use like
not having they don't know what they
want to do what they can do with their
creativity okay okay so here's how you
do the formula okay okay it starts like
this you know
how dot dot dot and you would just fill
in this rest right I'll show you how it
works what do you do well you know how
creative high school students don't know
what career direction to go and feel
lost and directionless like yes I help
them find a career in art and help them
get into the University of their
choice oh how do you do that well I te
digital media
design you see it's a conversation not a
monologue does that make sense yeah now
if you were to meet Jess at a party and
she told you let's go the old way tell
us how you pitch yourself what do you do
again Jess I teach digital multimedia
media design okay how does that hit you
guys versus version two what do you do
Jess you know how creative students are
often lost and
directionless yes to help them find so
you have to wait for me to say yeah you
have to like you have to PA it's a
conversation we need to converse with
each other okay I'm like Yes actually I
have a I have a high school student
myself how do you help them I help them
find a creative career and um point to
different universities that might help
them continue in their career I have a
bunch of friends that need your help see
the difference between the two there's a
book my I think his name is Michael
Porter it's called book yourself solid
he wants to kill the elevator pit
so he's trying to help you frame what
you do as a benefit and a problem that
you solve he has ways that you can do it
in 10 seconds in 30 seconds a minute
five minutes and 10 minutes all
different versions and you need to know
how to say this so that when you're
meeting the potential client of your
dreams you know what to
say cuz if you don't that opportunity
may not come again the problem is I hate
to say is creative people are really
self-centered all we do is talk about
ourselves what we do how wonderful we
are where we went to school what clients
we've helped it's really boring how do I
know because if I had to make you guys
network with each other you would have
drool in your mouth it's like this is so
boring right now and you won't remember
anything so here's the problem we only
listen to like six or seven pitches
right not a lot very hard to remember
because complexity and confusion are
enemies of understanding and retention
do not confuse people by using
complicated language or adding on a lot
of
commas one problem one Avatar one one
result you got that so let's go over
again one Avatar one problem one result
you need to tell them all of your life
story right this is what people do right
I was born on a cold winter night
December 12th I remember it clearly my
mom was just pregnant no nobody cares
it's too late they will care as soon as
you tell them what's in it for them
and you can do
that now can you do that as long as I've
been teaching 20 plus years now creative
people don't like to follow
formulas they just would not follow
formulas why I do not know they like to
just struggle and be
poor if I told you do these next five
things in this exact sequence and you'll
be a millionaire they're like I want to
do these two but not those three they
will
you know I I heard Alex Heros you guys
know who Alex rosi is he said on stage
uh at the I forget whatever grow with
video conference he goes there's All
These Guys these young kids like who he
attracts these alpha dogs you know and
and they're like we want to work for you
I want to become rich Alex and he goes
okay I'll tell you what to do and you
tell me if you're going to do it but I
guarantee you if you do it you'll make a
million dollars here's what he said I
want you to read I want you to post
content for a year I never pitch a
single thing I want you to do
consistently every single day they're
like I don't want to do
it so you're not willing to do what work
for one year to make a million dollars
and he says I guarantee you you'll make
a million dollars why creative people
don't want to follow directions some of
you may know this but I worked with my
business coach for 13 years he's passed
away since right worked with him 13
years the thing he told me to do that
allowed me to double my Revenue in one
year actually less than a year was he
told me to do something here's what he
told me to do he says how do you pitch
new business we work for ad agencies
right I told him this is how we do it he
says okay that's not very good I said I
thought it was great at this point I'm
doing $2.1 million in Revenue every year
it goes when do you ask the client a
question I thought I was supposed to
just pitch so when the agency says
here's the script we're going to watch
you through idea at the end of they
asked this question what's your take on
it and what I do immediately is I start
pitching my ideas well we could do this
what if we lens this what if we cast
these people and what if we grade it
this way and edit this way that's how I
thought you supposed to do a new
business call kind of like what you do
that's why I have such a strong reaction
to it he didn't really literally say
this but he's like idiot how do you know
what somebody wants without asking them
what do you want what inspired you how
will you decide who you want to work
with and I said to him k
I can't ask those kind of questions
that's
rude he goes do you want to try it or
not and I tried it and I'm telling you I
swear to God two calls later I'm winning
pitches left and right we went from
winning 20% of the new business pitches
to 75% plus I went from feeling really
depressed and feeling like demoralized
because we're only winning one out of
five pitches that's 20% we were leaving
so much money on the table with Brands I
wanted to work with all the time to a
point in which I felt like there's no
pitch I could not win and all he did was
tell me ask some questions dummy so I
asked questions and then I taught my
team how to ask questions and they were
winning and they were winning so much I
didn't go on the pitches anymore and
every time he told me to do something I
just did it imagine if Kier told me
Chris asked your clients questions and I
waited 10 years to ask that
question would I be here would I still
be in business I don't think so I'd be
on the road like I'd be in rehab or
something I don't know where I would
be develop a drinking
habit it sucks to pitch after work that
you really want for budgets you can only
dream of and for four out of five of
them to say no not today not you someone
else and then you're like why not me you
know how I would console myself before I
I hired Kier to teach me I say at least
we were
considered look at all these amazing
companies I admire we're pitching
against them that selft talk can only
last so long before you want
to take Desperate Measures you said that
there's usually one thing that's holding
one yeah do you have and obviously I
know that will be difficult cuz everyone
is not so much what it is but like do
you have any advice to figure it out I
have the advice that it's very difficult
for you to be in your world and to be
able to see your own thing that's why
consultants and coaches and and
preachers ministers therapists friends
instructors help you to see what you
cannot see if you have high
self-awareness and you sit there and
think a lot about who you are you can
probably see it yourself it's very
difficult especially if you've not been
coached or trained for any period of
time for you to be able to see it which
is good news for people like me cuz I
can see it I can see it almost instantly
just a quick thought I don't know if
this is going to stick with anyone but I
know this was helpful for me so if the
thought lands hold it if not just do
away with it but it's this idea that
just because your problem is not special
it doesn't mean that you're not special
I think sometimes when we are getting
solutions to things what happens in our
mind so if you come here and Chris gives
you a straight shot answer hey do this
all of a sudden what happens to me as I
talk with Chris and I think what happens
to a lot of us is we start going through
okay but here's why what you're saying
doesn't apply to my situ situation
because we feel and because you are
you're special you are special you are
valuable but your problems may not be
right and I think because we live in all
the context and all the nuance and all
the story and all the background and all
the we feel if those if all of those
things aren't heard and understood and
taken into account that it's we're being
misunderstood and that it's not the
solution for us